Our view to 2050 2025 Sustainability Report April 2025 ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 1 Contents Executive summary .
02 Our approach to sustainability Integrating sustainability into what we do .
09 Pursuing environmental excellence Managing environmental performance and compliance .
17 Caring for land and biodiversity .
19 Conserving water resources .
24 Improving air quality .
28 Minimizing operational waste .
30 Meeting society’s critical needs for energy and products Supporting a just transition .
33 Expanding the plastics life cycle .
37 Progressing product safety .
41 Safeguarding people Leading in personnel safety .
43 Enhancing process safety .
47 Respecting human rights .
52 Contributing to the well-being of communities Managing socioeconomic impacts .
56 Working with suppliers .
64 Sustainability performance data .
67 About our Advancing Climate Solutions and Sustainability Reports and Cautionary Statement .
70 ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 2 Protect Tomorrow.
Our approach to sustainability Protect Tomorrow.
is the guiding principle behind our approach to sustainability.
The world needs energy, more now than ever before.
Today, billions of people cannot meet their most basic needs – like access to clean cooking fuel and electricity.
At the same time, billions more need to sustain their quality of life and contribute to economic growth.
And as populations grow, people around the world will need more petrochemical products – critical in cars, homes, hospitals, kitchens – and anywhere people thrive.
We’re hard at work creating sustainable solutions that improve quality of life and meet society’s evolving needs Because we know it’s not just what we do that matters, but also how we do it.
It’s also a call to action.
It drives us to look at our businesses with the mindset to be the most responsible operator in our industry.
It gives us a consistent focus on doing the right things, the right way, to the highest standards.
We encourage our leaders and teams to ask questions that go beyond “What are we required to do?” We are asking proactive questions like: • How can we reduce or mitigate emissions, waste, or the resources we use in our operations?
• How can we increase benefits for our communities and reduce impacts?
• Are there opportunities to collaborate on industry standards and regulations?
The answers are as complex as our portfolio, and they will change over time.
How we act on what we learn will ultimately help us capture the full value of our competitive advantages – in the right way.
TODAY 2050 ~4 B ~10 B people below the modern energy minimum1 people on the planet 2024 Global Outlook E X E C U T I V E S U M M A R Y Our 14 sustainability focus areas Delivering economic benefits Progressing product safety Minimizing operational waste Respecting human rights Improving air quality Leading in personnel safety Enhancing process safety Evaluating product benefits with life cycle assessments Advancing climate solutions Caring for land and biodiversity Managing socioeconomic impacts Conserving water resources Expanding the plastics life cycle Investing in people “We have a philosophy to be the most responsible operator in our industry.
For as long as there’s a demand for oil and gas, you want the most responsible companies producing that.” — Darren Woods, Chairman and CEO About the cover: A 2.4 km liquidfied-natural-gas jetty operated by ExxonMobil PNG Limited in Papua New Guinea.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 3 ExxonMobil’s core values INTEGRITY COURAGE EXCELLENCE CARE RESILIENCE Be honest and ethical Do what is right Take initiative and make a difference Think boldly and act with conviction Take personal ownership Be respectful and inclusive Look after each other Contribute to the well-being of our communities and the environment Hold ourselves to high standards Be thoughtful, thorough and disciplined Be determined and persevere Be purposeful and steadfast in our principles What it takes to create sustainable solutions Doing the right things the right way Meeting society’s needs requires long-term focus and large-scale solutions.
It also takes collaboration – with everyone our business reaches: Communities Be a trusted partner that creates highquality jobs, operates safely with care for the environment, and invests to address socioeconomic challenges.
Customers Meet their needs for affordable, reliable, and lower-emission energy and products.
Employees Provide unrivalled opportunities for personal and professional growth, with safe, impactful work for an entire career.
Investors Deliver industryleading returns on the capital entrusted to us – today, tomorrow, and into the future.
Integrity is first among our core values for a reason.
Putting our values to work We hold our people to the highest ethical standards and expect them to do what’s right – across the company and throughout our sustainability focus areas.
Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) shows our people how.
It sets clear standards supported by processes that help us manage risks everywhere we work – from remote environments to vibrant communities.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 4 Caring for land and biodiversity Reducing potential impacts on ecosystems and protecting the value they provide to nature and people.
Conserving water resources Safeguarding water resources by prudently managing and monitoring our water use – with a focus on the quality and supply of freshwater.
Improving air quality Meeting or exceeding regulatory requirements and working to reduce nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and volatile organic compounds (VOCs).
Minimizing operational waste Incorporating best practices to manage and treat waste.
We look for ways to avoid waste entirely or recover, recycle, and reuse it when possible.
Pursuing environmental excellence As a global company, our environmental story is as diverse and complex as the ~60 countries we live and work in around the world.
Our Advancing Climate Solutions report details our approach to reducing emissions.
And that’s just part of the story.
We do far more every day to pursue environmental excellence: How have we turned these four environmental focus areas into results?
We have: Worked with Tandem Global (formerly Wildlife Habitat Council) on land and habitat conservation for >30 years.
Reduced reportable emissions of NOx, SOx, and VOCs from 2016 to 2024 by ~25%.3 Diverted from landfill >95% of waste produced in our global network of lubricants blending and packaging plants in 2023 and 2024.
Used recycled produced, brackish or reclaimed sources to supply 98% of the water in our Permian Basin hydraulic fracturing operations in 2024.2 Helping people thrive around the world That’s why we’re working to lead in an energy transition that will: • Provide solutions that support people around the world.
• Lower greenhouse gas emissions.
• Manage potential impacts.
Everyone needs reliable energy – to heat their homes, cook their meals, and improve their quality of life.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 5 Supporting our workforce, respecting human rights, and driving local growth We have a century-old legacy of growing local economies, supporting communities, developing our workforce, and maintaining a constant focus on keeping people safe.
Our core values and We are ExxonMobil leadership culture have led the way.
Everyone at ExxonMobil plays a role We expect our employees to be respectful and inclusive, to care for each other, and to contribute to the well-being of our communities and the environment.
Our Investing in People report describes how we develop our workforce to make this happen.
We focus on personnel safety and are determined to build a working environment where Nobody Gets Hurt.
Our Operations Integrity Management System helps our people do their part in process safety for the security and health of our employees, contractors, and others.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 6 The numbers tell a powerful story $200 M in worldwide giving in 2024.6 $1.6 B ~$39 M contributed to education around the world from 2000 to 2024.7 to science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education in 2024 alone.7 Community Safety >12K internal job rotations per year in support of development plans.
~30 #1 #1 year average length of service for retiring employees.
most attractive U.S. energy company for engineering students for 12th consecutive year.5 energy company for engineering students in countries with large ExxonMobil footprint.5 Employees 0.02 0 industry-leading lost-time incident rate (LTIR) per 200,000 work hours in 2023 – maintained our 0.02 LTIR in 2024.4 high-consequence product stewardship-related incidents in our Fuels, Lubricants, and Chemicals businesses again in 2024.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 7 Doing what’s right Our core values don’t stop at our door.
Our Standards of Business Conduct demonstrate our commitment to be a good corporate citizen in the places we operate around the world.
Respecting human rights is important to the well-being of our communities.
It’s embedded into our policies, processes, and due diligence practices.
We also provide access to remedy and channels for people to engage with us — in ways that make the most sense for the local culture.
Every community has a unique culture and history, and we believe everyone deserves to be treated fairly.
We work to promote inclusive sourcing open to all.
We seek to work with qualified suppliers that share our commitment to respecting human rights and working to reduce impacts to the environment.
Here is a snapshot: in annual spend with diverse suppliers in the United States.8 ~$6.8 B invested to help community-based and global partners implement programs that benefit women.
>$129 M Other ways we make an impact Notably, we’re helping to meet the increasing demand for products that play critical roles in hygiene, food preservation, personal safety, transportation, and much more.
And we’re working to expand the plastics life cycle through advanced recycling, allowing us to help address the global plastic waste challenge and make valuable products from discarded materials.
1B pounds of annual advanced recycling capacity planned.
80 M pounds of plastic waste processed through our Baytown advanced recycling facility through December 2024.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 8 The content and data referenced in this report focus primarily on our operations from Jan. 1, 2024 – Dec. 31, 2024, unless otherwise indicated.
Information regarding some known events or activities in 2025 and historical initiatives from prior years are also included in the report.
This is a glimpse into the meaningful work we do each day – from improving our communities to investing in energy solutions and people.
Each of these plays an important role in the communities we serve around the world.
We appreciate your interest and invite you to explore our full Sustainability Report on our website.
Footnotes for Executive Summary 1 Using UN HDI data from 2022, we determined that about 4 billion people live below the “modern energy minimum.” That’s far below modern standards of living, which require reliable energy for housing, infrastructure, jobs, and mobility.
See our 2024 Global Outlook.
2 In 2024, we acquired Pioneer Natural Resources Company.
In our combined Permian Basin operations, recycled produced water includes water from ExxonMobil and other oil & gas operators in the region.
Reclaimed water includes treated municipal and industrial wastewater.
3 Air emissions performance data includes recent acquisitions (Denbury data beginning November 2, 2023 and Pioneer data beginning May 3, 2024).
4 ExxonMobil LTIR based on full-year performance data for 2023 and 2024 as of March 12, 2025.
Incidents include injuries and illnesses.
ExxonMobil workforce includes employees, contractors, and recent acquisitions (Denbury data beginning November 2, 2023, and Pioneer data beginning May 3, 2024).
Industry benchmark: The International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) safety performance indicators and the American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) Report of Occupational Injuries and Illnesses are the Upstream and Downstream industry benchmarks, respectively.
IOGP safety performance indicators data converted from incidents per 1 million work hours to incidents per 200,000 work hours.
ExxonMobil analysis of data published by AFPM and IOGP.
2024 industry data not available at time of publication.
Performance data may include rounding.
5 Universum data (www.universumglobal.com).
6 Includes donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, its divisions and affiliates, the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and retiree giving through the ExxonMobil’s matching gift and volunteer programs.
7 Includes donations from ExxonMobil and the ExxonMobil Foundation.
8 Includes direct ExxonMobil spending on Tier 1 suppliers and a select group of Tier 2 suppliers, which includes small business owned, veteran business owned, and other classifications informed by industry reporting guidance.
At all times decisions are made based on the best supplier for the need.
2024 data from Pioneer operations not available at time of publication.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 9 Corporate governance Our Board of Directors oversees our strategy, providing strong corporate governance and guidance to management.
Our Standards of Business Conduct include what we call “foundation policies” defining the basis of our conduct worldwide.
The Board of Directors has adopted and oversees the administration of the Standards, and no one at ExxonMobil can make exceptions or grant waivers to these policies.
Our foundation policies cover aspects of the environment, health, safety, product safety, customer relations, equal employment opportunity, harassment in the workplace, and more.
They also define ethical conduct for our company, which includes our values on important matters like human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption.
Our Standards of Business Conduct are a key part of onboarding new employees, and they are reinforced with employees annually.
Wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries of Exxon Mobil Corporation generally adopt policies similar to our corporate standards.
Our directors, officers, and employees are required to review these policies annually and apply them in their work.
Employees are regularly required to complete business practices training.
And, of course, we require all employees, officers, directors, and those working on our behalf to comply with all applicable laws.
Employees in relevant job functions receive training on antitrust, anti-corruption, and trade laws (including anti-boycott, We are ExxonMobil leadership culture The strength of our culture is foundational to our success.
The We are ExxonMobil culture framework encompasses our core values and leadership expectations.
This framework also outlines key behavioral skills that apply to all employees.
Our culture is built on a strong focus on leadership and key talent systems, including performance assessments, on-the-job experience, and formal training.
Through our partnership with the University of Michigan and the University of North Carolina, our leadership programs are designed to help our leaders connect We are ExxonMobil with our strategic priorities and unlock the collective potential of our employees.
Nearly half of eligible leaders have participated, with more to come.
Integrating sustainability into what we do Our Standards of Business Conduct trade sanctions, and export controls topics) on an annual or biennial basis.
ExxonMobil-specific and other relevant training is shared with contractors if required to perform contracted services.
In 2024, more than 17,500 employees and contractors participated in relevant training.
Leadership Our governance and business ethics underpin our actions and behaviors.
This internal leadership drives our policies, systems, expecations and standards.
Application Strategies, capital, innovation and stakeholder engagement enable us to focus our resources and develop plans in the areas of greatest potential importance to ExxonMobil and society.
Performance Execution of plans, processes and stewardship of progress support delivery in areas of focus and drive continuous improvement.
L O u T p s A S s t p i P E s d c L e a d e r s h i p P e r f o r m a n c e A p p l i c a t i o n How we achieve our strategic priorities is as important as the results.
Our directors, officers, and employees are expected to observe the highest standards of integrity.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 10 INTEGRITY COURAGE EXCELLENCE CARE RESILIENCE Be honest and ethical Do what is right Take initiative and make a difference Think boldly and act with conviction Take personal ownership Be respectful and inclusive Look after each other Contribute to the well-being of our communities and the environment Hold ourselves to high standards Be thoughtful, thorough and disciplined Be determined and persevere Be purposeful and steadfast in our principles Additional resources Standards of Business Conduct Procedures and open-door communications Proxy Statement Integrity is first among our core values for a reason.
It underpins our dedication to uphold the highest ethical standards and to do what’s right in all aspects of our business.
We encourage employees and contractors to ask questions and voice concerns, and we insist that alleged violations of company policies be reported.
Our open-door communication procedures provide formal and informal mechanisms for employee feedback, including both a mailing address and 24-hour hotline for anonymous reports, among other options.
Maintaining confidentiality to the extent possible is critical, and we have protections in place to prevent retaliation.
In addition, our annual supplier communications letter provides mechanisms, including phone numbers by region, for feedback from suppliers.
A quarterly summary of reports of suspected violations of the Company’s policies is provided to the Board’s Audit Committee.
This committee consists of four independent (i.e., nonemployee) directors who help the Board in overseeing financial reporting, accounting, and internal controls.
This includes legal ExxonMobil’s core values Delivering economic benefits Progressing product safety Minimizing operational waste Respecting human rights Improving air quality Advancing climate solutions Leading in personnel safety Enhancing process safety Evaluating product benefits with life cycle assessmentsts Caring for land and biodiversity Managing socioeconomic impacts Conserving water resources Expanding the plastics life cycle Investing in people and regulatory compliance, as well as compliance with company policy.
Confirmed violations can lead to disciplinary actions, up to and including termination.
Regular internal audits and self-assessments help us verify the strength of our control systems and adherence to our Standards of Business Conduct.
Our team of internal auditors has access to all operations, records, personnel, and properties.
They review our activities and processes on an ongoing basis, and suspected noncompliance is investigated.
Our sustainability focus areas Our 14 Sustainability Focus Areas were developed by analyzing our environmental and social impacts, business strategies, current events, and internal and external stakeholders’ priorities.
We believe these focus areas are most important to both our company and society.
We develop strategies, allocate resources, and execute plans to address risks and opportunities within each of them.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 11 Current-state assessment Stakeholder input Scoring and analysis Validation Build a comprehensive set of potential priority topics based on peer benchmarking and other research Gather stakeholder input and associated evidence to support which topics the company should prioritize Synthesize research and develop a result report that makes the business case for managing the selected topics Validate and present the results, socialize internally and develop narrative on selected topics Identification Prioritization 1.
Validation The United Nations has adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to achieve progress on global economic, social, and environmental challenges.
The goals are directed at governments, but the private sector and civil society play an important role in supporting national plans.
We support governments’ efforts to meet the SDGs.
For example, our corporate strategy directly supports progress toward SDG 7, “Affordable and Clean Energy.” To meet the UN’s goal to “end poverty in all its forms everywhere,” providing for basic energy needs is a must.
As described in our Global Outlook, about 4 billion around the world live below what we call the “modern energy minimum” of 50 million British thermal units per capita per year.
When a nation meets the modern energy minimum, it can: • Provide universal access to clean cooking.
• Provide universal access to electricity.
• Eliminate abject poverty.
As we continue to help supply the energy products the world needs, we also support progress toward SDG 13, “Climate Action.” Reducing emissions is the other half of our “and” equation.
We’re pursuing up to $30 billion in loweremission investments from 2025 through 2030 – with about Topic selection process The findings of our topic selection process inform the development of this Sustainability Report.
Ipieca is the “global oil and gas association for advancing environmental and social performance across the energy transition.”1 It refers to important topics as those that, in the view of a company’s management and external parties, have the potential to significantly affect a company’s sustainability performance and stakeholder awareness, assessments, or decisions.2 In 2024, we engaged a third party to refresh our topic selection in line with the Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020, revised February 2023) developed by Ipieca, the American Petroleum Institute, and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers, reaffirming the importance of the topics discussed in this report.
Supporting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 65% focused on reducing emissions for third parties.3 This investment also supports our 2030 greenhouse gas emissionreduction plans.4 To select our topics, we also analyze peer and industry reporting, regulations, and media to gain data-driven insights into strategic, regulatory, and reputational risks and opportunities.
Inputs include: • Peer benchmarking.
• Review of leading sustainability frameworks – including those published by the Global Reporting Initiative, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and Ipieca.
• Internal and external stakeholder engagement.
Our Global Operations and Sustainability leadership reviews and validates the results of this topic selection process.
ExxonMobil Product Solutions supports progress toward SDG12, ”Responsible Consumption and Production” by providing the plastics that make modern life possible.
Our customers use our materials for applications in healthcare and medical equipment, agriculture, food and beverage, and other critical areas.
We are advancing infrastructure and technology for collecting, sorting, and processing discarded plastics.
In 2024, we announced a $200 million investment to expand our advanced recycling capacity to 500 million pounds – that’s the weight of about 25 Eiffel Towers.
Advanced recycling allows for a substantially broader range of plastic waste to be recycled back into high-value raw materials versus conventional recycling.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 12 Communicating progress Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited provided reasonable-level assurance for the processes we used to report on Ipieca’s core elements of safety, health and environment in our Sustainability Report.
In addition to our Sustainability Report, we publish comprehensive reports to provide insight into how we create value through our integrated businesses and how we manage associated risks, opportunities, and impacts.
Our systems, expectations, and standards We have built an organizational and governance structure around our focus areas to ensure top-to-bottom and bottomto-top alignment.
Our objectives and strategies ensure a consistent approach across the company, while empowering our business lines to take action and advance our sustainability priorities.
Across our global operations, we apply rigorous management systems to identify, track, and report performance metrics.
These systems help us comply with applicable laws and regulations and provide a framework for maintaining high standards, even where laws or regulations don’t exist.
Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) establishes expectations, protocols, and guidance that apply across all our operations to address risks inherent to our business, including environmental risks.
Each element of OIMS contains overarching objectives, specific expectations, and detailed processes for implementation.
The OIMS framework is applied across ExxonMobil, and we monitor the performance of our operated and non-operated assets (e.g., joint ventures) against OIMS expectations.
Global Outlook Advancing Climate Solutions Report Annual Report Investing in People Worldwide Giving Report Advocacy Report Our reports ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 13 Key systems and standards include: Controls Integrity Management System (CIMS): The CIMS is used to assess and measure financial control risks, identify mitigation procedures, monitor compliance with standards, and report results.
Environmental Aspects Guide (EAG): This guide establishes a consistent approach to identify, evaluate, and assess environmental and socioeconomic risks.
Environmental Plans: These plans address environmental objectives as part of the annual business cycle using a corporate-wide framework.
Environmental Data Management System (EDMS): The EDMS is used to collect, collate, and consolidate site-level data at the corporate level to help manage environmental performance indicators globally.
Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA): These assessments enable us to identify and analyze key environmental, socioeconomic, and health risks and to develop management strategies throughout an asset’s life cycle.
ExxonMobil Capital Projects Management System (EMCAPS): EMCAPS provides a framework for project development and execution and helps account for environmental and socioeconomic concerns, as well as regulatory requirements.
Additional resources Management systems, standards and controls Standards of Business Conduct Global Energy Management System: This system identifies opportunities to improve energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions intensity in downstream and chemical operations.
IMPACT: This corporate-wide database captures and analyzes safety and environmental data on incidents, nearmisses, observations, assessment findings, lessons learned, and follow-up activities.
National Content Guidelines, Strategies, and Best Practices: This document outlines the key elements of our national content strategy and plan, models, and tools for the successful development of national content, and roles and responsibilities at the corporate, country, and project levels.
Product Stewardship Information Management System (PSIMS): This system applies common global processes and a global computer system to capture and communicate information on the safe handling, transport, use, and disposal of our products.
Project Environmental Standards (PES): These standards identify applicable company environmental and socioeconomic standards for affected new projects.
Technology Management System: This system includes processes for technology investments that follow a gated management system from early technical innovation to final deployment.
Stakeholder engagement We work to foster mutual understanding, trust, and cooperation with many different stakeholder groups.
Through open dialogue, we’re able to gather feedback, hear concerns, discuss approaches, share our plans, and tailor our approach to best understand and address individual perspectives and needs.
Stakeholder groups include: • Shareholders • Governments • Communities • Customers • Employees • Suppliers • Academia • Nongovernmental organizations • Trade associations and industry groups Two-way engagement topics include: • Technical aspects of projects • Community benefits and opportunities • Potential impacts to the environment and community • Local concerns • Public policy development • Project development progress • Market-based approaches to sustainability matters • Policy insights • Safety, environmental, and human rights practices Engagement methods include: • Community meetings • Open-door communications • Digital and social media • Corporate publications • Direct mail communications • Participation in local organizations, trade associations, and other groups • One-on-one or group discussions ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 14 Engaging with shareholders Ongoing engagement with our shareholders is vitally important as we seek to understand their diverse perspectives and keep them informed about our business.
Engaged with: • Institutional investors • Retail shareholders • Pension funds • Religious organizations • Non-governmental organizations • Proxy advisory firms • Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) rating firms • Industry thought leaders • Shareholder proposal proponents Engaged through: • Individual and group investor meetings • Corporate plan update • Quarterly earnings calls • Investor conferences • Spotlight events • Annual shreholder meeting • Shareholder webcasts • Stakeholder outreach Engaged with shareholder representing: 2.1 billion shares ~47% of total outstanding shares and ~76% of institutional shareholdings Information shared through: • SEC filings • Press releases • Annual Report • Company website • Investing in People report Engagements include: • Non-employee directors • Chairman/CEO/management committee • Senior management • Subject matter experts • Other employees Sustainability engagements: >50% increase since 2019 • Advancing Climate Solutions report • Sustainability Report • Advocacy Report • Earnings Calls 2024 engagement highlights We engage with shareholders and their representatives on a range of issues throughout the year.
In addition, the Nominating and Governance Committee has procedures for shareholders and others to reach out to Board members.
Individuals can email our non-employee directors through our website.
All communications are recorded by an assistant secretary or designated staff member and forwarded to the appropriate director or directors, or otherwise handled as the Committee directs.
Our engagements can often address areas of interest without the need for formal shareholder proposals.
Each year, shareholders or their proxies submit proposals as allowed by SEC Rule 14a-8.
Company management and the Board consider each proposal, and the company seeks a dialogue with the proposal sponsor.
At the 2024 annual meeting, shareholders owning more than 3.3 billion outstanding shares, or approximately 84%, were represented.
In 2024, shareholders voted on 7 issues, including 4 shareholder proposals.
More information on the voting outcomes can be found in the 2024 proxy voting results.
Corporate governance 2024 Proxy Statement 2024 Proxy Results ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 15 Engaging with governments Policy decisions made at all levels of government can affect our operations, now and in the future.
We actively participate in discussions around the world to support policies that promote economic growth, stable investment for long-term business viability, energy security, and the development and acceleration of lower-emission solutions.
We focus on rational and constructive policy that reflects the “and” equation – growing the supply of affordable and reliable energy products that improve living standards around the world and supporting scalable development and deployment of lower- and zero-greenhouse gas emission technologies.
Such policies can further encourage investments in loweremission technologies to advance the energy transition at the lowest cost to society.
ExxonMobil’s positions on climate, including its 2030 greenhouse gas emission-reduction plans,5 are available on our website and in our Advancing Climate Solutions Report, along with our annual proxy statement, press releases, and the Exxchange, our online advocacy hub.
Our lobbying and political contributions are aligned with these positions.
Positions and principles Advocacy Report Advancing Climate Solutions Report 2024 Proxy Statement Press releases Exxchange U.S. lobbying expenses ExxonMobil undertakes lobbying to advocate for our positions on issues that affect our company, the energy industry, and overall competitive free markets.
We have a responsibility to our shareholders, employees, customers, and communities to represent their interests in public policy discussions that are related to our industry and impact our business.
We have a rigorous process to determine which public policy issues are important to the company.
This process includes soliciting input from internal business lines, Low Carbon Solutions, Upstream, and Product Solutions, as well as corporate departments including strategic planning, human resources, law, tax, and public and government affairs.
We also engage with a wide range of third parties – both individuals and organizations – to ensure external perspectives are considered.
Our Advocacy Report provides additional detail of our direct and indirect climate-related lobbying activities at the federal, state and local level, as well as our grassroots lobbying communications.
In addition, the report provides all lobbying expenses that have been reported to us by all 501(c)(6) and 501(c)(4) organizations that we support.
This includes more than 100 organizations and 100% of the lobbying expenses incurred, as well as the issues lobbied.
It also provides an assessment of ExxonMobil and its affiliates’ climate-related lobbying activities in relevant trade associations.
We fully comply with federal and state regulations by reporting federal lobbying to the U.S. Congress and state-level lobbying to appropriate entities, as required.
We also publicly report, on a quarterly basis, our federal lobbying expenses and the specific issues lobbied.
The total figure reported in our public Lobbying Disclosure Act filings includes expenses associated with the costs of employee federal lobbying, as well as those portions of payments to trade associations, coalitions, and think tanks spent on federal lobbying.
This process, along with the oversight of our lobbying and political engagement, can be found on our website.
Advocacy Report Political contributions The Board of Directors has authorized ExxonMobil to make political contributions to candidate committees and other political organizations as permitted by applicable laws.
The Board annually reviews our political contributions, as well as contributions from the company-sponsored Political Action Committee (PAC).
Internal audits of the corporation’s public and government affairs activities routinely verify contribution amounts.
As a U.S. federal contractor, ExxonMobil has not used corporate treasury funds to support any federal candidates, national political parties, or other political committees, including Super Political Action Committees.
ExxonMobil has chosen not to use treasury funds or PAC funds for direct independent political expenditures at the federal level, including electioneering communications.6 Eligible employees and shareholders may participate in the U.S. political process by contributing to a voluntary, companysponsored, federal PAC.
ExxonMobil reports PAC contributions to the U.S. Federal Election Commission every month.
Political contributions ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 16 Transparency in payments to governments We believe that disclosing relevant payments to governments is an important tool to reduce corruption, improve government accountability, and promote greater economic stability worldwide.
We consider the most successful transparency initiatives to be those that: • Apply to all foreign, domestic, and state-owned companies.
• Protect proprietary information to promote commercial competitiveness.
• Comply with international trade conventions and treaties.
• Do not violate host government laws or contractual obligations.
Our approach to tax Footnotes for Integrating sustainability into what we do 1 https://www.ipieca.org 2 Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020, revised February 2023) developed by Ipieca, the American Petroleum Institute, and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers.
3 Lower emissions cash capex includes cash capex attributable to carbon capture and storage, hydrogen, lithium, biofuels, ProxximaTM systems, carbon materials, and activities to lower ExxonMobil’s emissions and/or third party (3P) emissions.
Planned spend is from 2025-2030.
4 ExxonMobil 2030 GHG emission-reduction plans are intensity-based and for Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions from operated assets compared to 2016 levels.
For more information, see our Advancing Climate Solutions report.
5 ExxonMobil 2030 GHG emission-reduction plans are intensity-based and for Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions from operated assets compared to 2016 levels.
6 Electioneering communication is the standard terminology used by the Federal Election Committee and also used in our Advocacy Report.
It includes any communication that refers to a clearly identified federal candidate, is publicly distributed within 30 days of a primary or 60 days of a general election and is targeted to the relevant electorate.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 17 Our approach Protect Tomorrow.
is our guiding principle.
We aim to develop, maintain, and operate assets responsibly as we work to meet society’s evolving needs.
We apply our environmental management systems across our operations as we strive for leading environmental performance.
We evaluate potential and actual environmental and socioeconomic risks at each stage of a project, even early stages of planning, to mitigate potential impacts.
Managing environmental performance and compliance Our standards and tools set the bar in our operations as we work to enhance risk management and maximize opportunities to responsibly meet society’s needs.
We are also committed to complying with all applicable environmental laws and regulations.
Even where regulations do not exist, we apply our Project Environmental Standards and other practices, programs, and procedures to guide our work.
Our environmental focus areas We often work in remote and sensitive places, such as deep water and in areas that include ecosystems with high biodiversity.
Wherever we operate, we work to protect the environment and support the social and economic needs of communities – today and for generations to come.
Our environmental focus areas are: • Advancing climate solutions • Caring for land and biodiversity • Conserving water resources • Improving air quality • Minimizing operational waste Managing our commitment Our Environment Policy is part of our Standards of Business Conduct.
It details our commitment to continuous efforts to improve environmental performance throughout our operations.
Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) framework meets International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 environmental management system standards and the requirements of American Chemistry Council Responsible Care®.
Our global network of more than 20 lubricant plants is ISO 14001-certified – an indicator of the effectiveness of OIMS.
Excellence in project execution is built on deep insight into the unique traits of the areas where we operate.
We use our Environmental Aspects Guide to identify and evaluate environmental and socioeconomic risks and impacts through the life of each site or project.
For major capital projects, we typically perform an Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Health Impact Assessment.
Among the many environmental aspects covered, we may include water use, air emissions, biodiversity, sound, land use, and others.
Once we have defined the environmental and socioeconomic aspects of each project, we develop plans to avoid, reduce, or address any issues that may arise.
We also seek feedback from stakeholders, including local communities.
We offer training on these processes and other environmental and socioeconomic topics to employees as part of our ongoing development efforts.
Employees have completed more than 13,000 of these courses since 2022. International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 American Chemistry Council Responsible Care® Environmental Aspects Guide Pursuing environmental excellence ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 18 Our GO&S Vice President reports directly to a member of our management committee.
This role is responsible for driving our Protect Tomorrow.
This includes: Global Operations and Sustainability Our Global Operations and Sustainability (GO&S) organization touches every part of ExxonMobil, making use of our scale, capabilities, and the synergies between our business lines.
Performance data Our metrics are informed by the Ipieca, the American Petroleum Institute (API), and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020, revised February 2023), and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
Our Project Environmental Standards Our Project Environmental Standards (PES) are our internally established environmental and socioeconomic standards that outline expectations and requirements for new projects.
These standards were first developed for upstream projects, and were established in 2010 for all our business lines.
They were harmonized across the company in 2021 and are updated as needed.
PES sets minimum environmental standards, even where laws are lacking.
These standards are integrated into management systems like OIMS, enabling consistent application across the company.
Measuring our performance Everywhere we work, we strive to deliver leading environmental performance.
The standards and practices we apply around the world often go beyond local legal requirements.
The floating production storage and offloading (FPSO) vessels built for our affiliate in Guyana are an important example.
The Liza Unity FPSO was the first in the world to be awarded the SUSTAIN-1 notation by the American Bureau of Shipping (ABS).
To earn this notation, a vessel must meet certain requirements of the ABS Guide for Sustainability Notations.
These criteria reflect Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) related to asset design, outfitting, and layout, covering aspects such as: • Recycling • Energy use • Coastal and marine ecosystems • Human-centered design • Working with our Corporate Strategic Planning organization and the business lines to develop goals.
• Integrating goals into our plans and operations.
• Stewarding sustainability topics with our Chairman and the Management Committee at least once per quarter.
Within GO&S, the Sustainability Director manages our sustainability focus areas.
This includes our environmental management system and other key processes.
Experts within the team work with others across the company to seek out opportunities for continuous improvement.
Building on Liza Unity’s success, the Prosperity FPSO received the same notation from ABS.
Prosperity started up in 2023 with an initial capacity of around 220,000 barrels of oil per day – supporting economic development in the region and helping to meet the world’s demand for energy.
American Bureau of Shipping ABS Guide for Sustainability Notation ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 19 Caring for land and biodiversity Pursuing environmental excellence Our operations are in areas that include: • Forests • Grasslands • Marshes • Deserts • Aquatic and marine environments These ecosystems, functioning in a healthy relationship, provide benefits (i.e., natural services) like pollination of crops, food, clean air, and physical and spiritual well-being.
The scale of our operations means that we have to consider ecosystems and work to reduce potential impacts to them and the value they provide.
Knowing how our activities interact with ecosystems is key to supporting nature and communities.
Our approach We employ a comprehensive process to understand the connection between our business and the communities and environments where we operate.
Using our Operational Integrity Management System and Environmental Aspects Guide, we work to understand and measure the benefits gained from the biodiversity of an environment.
• Our environmental management system helps us identify, mitigate, and monitor potential impacts to any given environment.
• Engagement with academia, industry, community leaders, and others helps us identify relevant biodiversity and ecosystem services.
With these inputs, we apply an approach based on an evaluation of the ecosystems and how they function in the broader environment.
is our guiding principle.
Our work is also informed by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Care is a core value.
We aim to contribute to the well-being of the communities and environment where we operate.
That’s what Care means for us.
The way we manage land and habitats, and the biodiversity within them, is critically important to this objective.
Our Project Environmental Standards (PES) for Land Use and Marine Sound inform how we choose projects and design our facilities.
They enable us to: • Avoid or reduce environmental and socioeconomic impacts related to short- and long-term land use, including lands in critical habitats or with high ecosystem value.
• Identify, assess, and manage risks linked with our work that may produce marine sound, and reliably and effectively implement our mitigation efforts.
Our standards provide guidance for avoiding land use in areas of high “ecosystem services” value or critical habitats.1 Our guidance includes more than a dozen categories for consideration, including statutory protections, impacts from other industrial activities, and importance to Indigenous peoples.
In these areas, we follow the Cross Sector Biodiversity Initiative’s mitigation hierarchy, a best practice to help avoid, reduce, restore, and offset impacts to biodiversity.
As part of this decision-making process, we look for ways to protect, conserve, or restore ecosystems from the start of a project through the end of an asset’s life, including remediation and restoration.
For major projects, we use our Environmental, Social, and Health Impact Assessment process to evaluate environmental, social, and health risks.
We also use an environmental aspects United Nations Sustainable Development Goals related to this content.
We work under a broad range of natural and socioeconomic settings – and every location is unique.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 20 Operations near protected areas We check our sites against the World Database of Protected Areas and adjust our business plans as needed to enhance emergency response plans and protective measures.
In 2024, 32% of major operating sites2 were within 5 km of designated protected areas on land and 10 km of designated marine protected areas.
What are ecosystem services?
Ecosystems are how nature works.
From water and air … to plants and animals … to food and raw materials, nature is interconnected and essential for human life.
The concept of ecosystem services links the socioeconomic and environmental settings in each area where we operate.
Ecosystem services are the way that nature contributes, both directly or indirectly, to human health and prosperity.
These can be complex – like the role of insects in pollinating crops and natural plants.
Or they can be as simple as the beauty of natural landscapes that improve spiritual and mental well-being.
We look to assess the significance of our activities and the potential impact those activities might have on ecosystem services – that is, we seek to understand how the ecosystems benefit people and the environment.
By identifying the biodiversity and relevant ecosystem services around our sites, our project designs and operational practices can both reduce potential impacts and find opportunities for added benefits.
The table3 below lists our major operating sites within 5 km of: • International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Category I and II protected areas (strict nature reserves, wilderness areas, and national parks).
• Ramsar sites (wetlands of international importance).
• UNESCO World Heritage Sites (natural and cultural).
Major operating site Protected area name Designation/type Location Facility type Country Long Island Point Mornington Peninsula and Western Port Bioesphere Reserve UNESCO - man and Biosphere Programme (MAB), Ramsar Site Within 1 km Fractionation plant and storage Australia Fawley Solent and Southampton Water Ramsar site Within 1 km Petroleum refinery and chemical plant United Kingdom Point Jerome Gravenchon Marais Vernier et Vallée de la Risle maritime Ramsar site Within 1 km Petroleum refinery and lube oil blending plant France Notre Dame Gravenchon Marais Vernier et Vallée de la Risle maritime Ramsar site Within 5 km Chemical plant France Fife Ethylene Plant Firth of Forth Ramsar site Within 5 km Chemical plant United Kingdom Barenburg Operations Diepholzer Moorniederung Ramsar site Within 5 km Oil and gas processing Germany Vallejo El Tepeyac IUCN Cat ll Within 5 km Lube blending plant Mexico assessment process to identify, assess, and establish solutions (e.g., potential mitigation measures) at every stage of a project.
Systems like these help us put Care into practice in this focus area.
Through training, we bring this core value to life with our employees.
As part of our sustainability strategy, land and habitat management is emphasized in online training, in-person meetings, and interactive virtual sessions.
For example, in 2022, we launched sustainability online training courses available to all employees, including a module to reinforce the importance of ExxonMobil’s sustainability focus areas like this one.
Through December 2024, more than 4,000 employees have completed this module.
Some employees receive more training with a deep focus on environmental management, based on their roles.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 21 In 2023, 109 clans in the Lower Kikori came together for the signing of 11 conservation deeds to preserve more than 20,000 hectares of land in the PNG’s Gulf Province – a recordbreaking achievement for the region.
These deeds serve as a legal mechanism to create formal protected areas in the Kikori Delta area.
ExxonMobil Research Qatar in Doha works with QatarEnergy LNG, Qatar University, and the Ministry of Environment and Climate Change to define and deploy nature-based solutions (NbS) to help protect, manage, and restore ecosystems.
Mangrove habitats, for example, can provide multiple NbS “cobenefits” such as supporting biodiversity, stabilizing shorelines, and sequestering carbon.
Constructed wetlands are another avenue of research, as they can be used for wastewater treatment and reuse.
In Centreville, Mississippi, a cross-functional team is developing and implementing an ambitious beneficial use remediation project on a 240-acre site.
Efforts there include: • Pursuing WHC Certification®, powered by Tandem Global, a voluntary sustainability standard designed for broad-based biodiversity enhancement and conservation education activities on corporate landholdings.
• Developing a STEM education program in conjunction with Conservation milestones in Papua New Guinea Our affiliate supported this effort for more than a decade through collaboration, engagement, and facilitation.
Our affiliate’s operations in the country encompass areas of high biodiversity significance and conservation value.
In fact, the project’s upstream area4 is deemed to be critical habitat.
The overall objective of the biodiversity strategy is to retain the biodiversity value of the upstream area for the long-term by: • Maintaining the integrity of the ecosystem in the project’s upstream area.
• Conserving priority ecosystems such as the Hides Ridge and Lake Kutubu areas.
• Protecting focal habitats and significant ecological features such as caves and swamp forests.
• Identifying and offsetting significant residual impacts such as land cover changes from the installation of pipelines and roads.
the University of Southern Mississippi for teachers and classrooms across the state and beyond.
• Land management programs involving the introduction of natural grasses and reforestation, with support from the Mississippi Forestry Commission and Mississippi State University.
• Biodiversity monitoring with the introduction of leadingedge eDNA technologies to perform ecological surveys.
In Louisiana, the ExxonMobil Baton Rouge Arboretum and Learning Center achieved WHC Certification®.
Designated as Certified Silver, the site comprises more than 700 acres of preserves.
Our efforts there are focused on local birds, pollinator protection, and urban forests.
Collaborators have ranged from international groups, like the Audubon Society, to a local horticulturalist known as “The Garden Lady.” In 2023, our work in the region earned the Clean Biz Award from Keep Louisiana Beautiful.
Our work is catered to the needs of each community and ecosystem.
We seek opportunities for: Site-specific strategies Research to increase shared knowledge about ecosystems and how they work.
Engagement with local communities, governments, and academia to connect our work with regional strategies.
Remediation and conservation to bring new life to areas where we operate.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 22 The WHC Certification® is a voluntary sustainability standard designed for: • Broad-based biodiversity enhancement.
• Conservation education activities.
We are a founding member of the Wildlife Habitat Council, which combined with the World Enviroment Center to form Tandem Global in 2025.
For more than three decades, we have worked with the council to promote sustainability, wildlife preservation, biodiversity, and conservation education at our sites.
These projects vary from large-scale habitat restoration to community nature outings.
Working together to support biodiversity We work with local education and research institutions, and we participate in community programs to: • Promote conservation of native species.
• Support field surveys and collection of data.
• Increase awareness and engagement.
• Improve biodiversity management.
In 2023 and in 2024, we took part in Ipieca’s Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (BES) Peer-to-Peer Workshop, an industry-wide forum to share knowledge and build capabilities among member companies.
More than 100 environmental and biodiversity practitioners from around the world participated in these workshops, contributing good practices, tools, and concepts to avoid, manage, and mitigate impacts on biodiversity.
In Papua New Guinea, our affiliate works with the New Guinea Binatang Research Centre to enhance conservation capacity for practitioners with certificate training through to post-grad Ph.D. programs.
For example, five people representing the 109 clans who signed the conservation deeds received ranger training in 2022.
We also support NatureServe in its mission to leverage the power of science, data, and technology to guide biodiversity conservation and stewardship.
In 2023 and in 2024, the grants were focused on research and development related to the scalability of biodiversity indicators and the technology to make data more easily usable by practitioners.
30+ years of habitat conservation with the Wildlife Habitat Council Pollinator gardens and community awareness at our ExxonMobil Baton Rouge Arboretum and Learning Center.
Sawmill Creek trout pond voluntarily constructed for natural spawning of the Colorado River Cutthroat Trout at our Black Canyon Facility.
Moose and wildlife management at our Imperial Oil Cold Lake site.
Rosate Spoonbill at our Sorrento salt dome storage facility in Louisiana.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 23 “I’m proud to be part of a company that works hard to understand the environments where we operate, including biodiversity and the benefits that ecosystems provide.
Our people care for the land and habitats around our sites, and you can see that in their actions.” Ram Narayan Chair: Ipieca Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services Working Group Member: Wildlife Habitat Council Executive Advisory Committee Ram, our Principal of Land and Biodiversity (Onshore), leads the integration of biodiversity considerations into our environmental risk management for projects and sites.
Footnotes for Caring for land and biodiversity 1 Critical habitats, as described by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standard 6 (PS6) on Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources (IFC, 2012a), are areas with high biodiversity value, including (i) habitat of significant importance to Critically Endangered and/or Endangered species; (ii) habitat of significant importance to endemic and/or restricted-range species; (iii) habitat supporting globally significant concentrations of migratory species and/or congregatory species; (iv) highly threatened and/or unique ecosystems; and/or (v) areas associated with key evolutionary processes.
2 Major operating sites are defined as “operated assets in operational or development phase to include onshore and offshore, oil and gas production facilities, refineries and manufacturing sites, upstream central facilities, and gas plants.” (Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020, revised February 2023) developed by Ipieca, the American Petroleum Institute and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers).
3 Protected Area, Key Biodiversity Area, and Species data reproduced and incorporated under license from the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT) (https://www.
IBAT is provided by BirdLife International, Conservation International, IUCN and UNEP-WCMC.
Contact ibat@ibat-alliance.org for further data.
4 The upstream area covers the Hela, Southern Highlands, Western and Gulf provinces of Papua New Guinea.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 24 Each community and ecosystem is different.
Understanding water stress and our potential impacts at the local level is an important part of how we enhance our risk management to Protect Tomorrow.
Without water, we would not be able to operate our sites and meet society’s needs for energy and products.
Water scarcity has the potential to pose business continuity and other risks.
That’s why we need resilient water systems for our operations.
We engage externally to gain insights and perspectives into water risks in the areas where we operate, and we consider these in our project designs and practices.
Our approach We strive to be a leader in safeguarding water resources.
Our priority is the quality and supply of freshwater in the communities and environments where we work.
We focus on prudently managing and monitoring the water we use.
Through our water stewardship efforts, we seek to: Our overall water management process is consistent with Ipieca’s Water Management Framework.
• Help protect the health of people and the environment.
• Consider local water needs as we meet the needs of our operations.
• Continuously improve our capabilities and performance.
• Engage externally on water solutions.
Water use at ExxonMobil We use water in many aspects of our business, such as cooling machinery and making steam.
We withdraw or purchase fresh, brackish, and saline water across our operations.
This includes upstream exploration and production, downstream refining and chemicals production, and our growing Low Carbon Solutions business.
When sourcing water for operations, we consider local needs and available sources of supply.
Our Project Environmental Standard for Water Management establishes requirements for water sourcing and wastewater treatment.
We hold ourselves to these internal standards which set requirements when a country has no water-use standards or less-stringent standards than our own expectations.
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals related to this content.
Conserving water resources Pursuing environmental excellence Water is vital.
It’s an essential resource for the world’s ecosystems, human development, and life itself.
It’s also finite – and as populations grow, so will demand for water.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 25 Site-specific strategies We consider many factors in our approach at a given process or site, including local water availability, quality, and environmental impact.
At selected water-stressed sites, this includes assessing actual costs and potential tradeoffs, such as reduced efficiency, higher energy use, or more concentrated waste streams.
In 2023, we began working with outside experts on an indepth analysis of key operating sites in areas of potential future water stress.
At these sites and others, we are developing thorough water balances to gain further clarity on our water use.
This work informs our efforts to develop water roadmaps that outline opportunities to reduce freshwater intake for select major operated facilities.2 In Singapore, most of the water used by our affiliate’s manufacturing and refining complex is wastewater that is reclaimed and treated by the country’s national water agency.
The facility’s “membrane biological reactor” enables additional reuse in on-site operations by using microorganisms to break down and separate waste.
At our Baytown petrochemical complex in Texas, we started projects and initiatives to address changes to our water supply, informed in part by our engagement with the Texas Water Development Board.
In support of the Houston Metro Area’s water management plans, we continue to advance the infrastructure needed to shift sourcing from the San Jacinto River to the saltier Trinity River.3 Assessing and managing water risk We use a number of tools to assess water risks and scarcity, including local assessments and the World Resources Institute AqueductTM (WRI) Water Risk Atlas (WRI tool).
Informed by our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) framework and Environmental Aspects Guide, we consider the unique traits of each asset and location, including biodiversity and other environmental factors.
With this understanding, we seek to reduce total water use and impacts to freshwater-dependent ecosystems through tactics that include: • Water conservation technologies.
• Use of alternative sources.
• Recycling of municipal and industrial wastewater.
Throughout the life of an asset or project, our Environmental Aspects Guide informs our efforts.
We research and analyze our operations to continuously improve the processes and technologies we use.
In 2022, we piloted our Water Aspect Assessment Tool to strengthen our focus on water risks and embedded the tool into our Project Environmental Standards and Environmental Aspects Assessment process in 2024.
This tool has helped us clarify our understanding of water availability (quantity and quality), accessibility, and dimensions of water-related risks beyond water stress.
Identifying and managing risks related to water supply and quality is especially important in areas of water stress.
Water stress is defined by measuring the ratio of water withdrawals to available renewable water supplies.
We estimate that about 19% of the freshwater volume we withdraw is from water-stressed areas, based on analysis using the WRI tool.
This represents a 10% increase since our last report, driven by ongoing portfolio optimization efforts including the acquisition of Pioneer and the divestment of some assets.
By site, this represents about 29% of our locations.1 “Water is local and even personal.
Communities need water to thrive, and we cannot run our company without water, so we need to focus on using it responsibly.” Cynthia Wagener, P.E.
Member: API Clean Water Issues Group Vice Chair, API Upstream Water Issues Group Co-Chair, Ipieca Water Stewardship Task Force, American Chemistry Council Water Stewardship Team Cynthia is our Water Resource Principal Engineer who leads our water management efforts and works across our operations on site-specific strategies for water conservation.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 26 In the Permian Basin and elsewhere in our operations, we collaborate with industry members, technology solution providers, researchers, and regulators to help improve industry water management.
In 2024, more than a quarter of our global oil and natural gas production came from the Permian Basin.
As we work to responsibly develop our assets in the region, we strive to safeguard the availability and quality of its water sources.
In the Permian Basin, we aim to reduce the withdrawal from natural water resources and mitigate risks from water use in our operations.
To do this, we seek to: • Prioritize sourcing from recycled produced water to conserve resources of fresh and brackish water.
• Diversify water disposal through innovative technology.
• Maximize opportunities to reuse treated produced water, applying our capabilities in risk management, research, and technology.
• Support local and regional water conservation efforts, such as those of the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation’s Pecos Watershed Conservation Initiative.
Our water management roadmap helps us plan for future Permian Basin development over the next 10 years.
Implemented in 2021, it helps us identify opportunities to reduce freshwater intake and manage disposal.
The roadmap informs our efforts to achieve industry-leading performance on water management.
We plan to update the roadmap as needed.4 In 2024, we acquired Pioneer Natural Resources Company.
Using the newly combined operating capabilities and infrastructure, ExxonMobil expects to increase the amount of recycled produced water used in its Permian Basin hydraulic fracturing operations to more than 90% by 2030.5 The company has made significant progress in reducing freshwater dependence in the region, increasing our use of recycled produced water in our hydraulic fracturing operations from 64% in 2022 to 87% in 2024.
Reclaimed and brackish sources made up an additional 11%.6 All told, recycled produced, brackish, and reclaimed sources comprised 98% of water we used in our hydraulic fracturing operations in the region.
Spotlight: The Permian Basin and the Pioneer acquisition Across our upstream portfolio, our wells are designed and constructed to promote integrity and help protect the water table.
Layers of steel and cement form protective barriers between our subsurface pipes and underground aquifers to keep fluids contained.
In addition, well completions using hydraulic fracturing are closely monitored to manage the pressures within the well, based on parameters set in our project designs.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 27 Footnotes for Conserving water resources 1 ExxonMobil full-year 2024 performance data as of March 24, 2025, and World Resources Institute AqueductTM Water Risk Atlas accessed on March 24, 2025.
For more information on the tool, visit www.wri.org/aqueduct.
We categorize “water-stressed areas” as high, extremely high, or arid stress levels identified by this WRI tool and exclude sites that withdraw less than 500,000 barrels per year.
2 Roadmaps aim to identify opportunities for selected operated sites, which are subject to change as a result of multiple factors, including the company’s planning process, supportive government policy, and/or technology developments.
3 Texas Water Development Board, Region H Water Planning Group, 2021 Regional Water Management Plan Volume 1 Section 11.2.4, available at www.twdb.texas.gov/ waterplanning/rwp/plans/2021.
4 This water management roadmap identifies opportunities in the Permian Basin, which are subject to change as a result of a number of factors, including the Company’s planning process, supportive government policy, and/or technology developments.
5 In our combined Permian Basin operations, recycled produced water includes water from ExxonMobil and other oil & gas operators in the region.
6 Reclaimed water includes treated municipal and industrial wastewater.
Strategic collaborations Universities, governments, and others in our industry help inform how we manage water risks today and study opportunities for the future.
Through collaborations like these, our engineers and scientists assess new wastewater technologies, evaluate current infrastructure, and develop ways to improve our performance.
We collaborate with multiple third-party groups, including: • The National Alliance for Water Innovation, based at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, works on advanced technologies to desalinate produced water.
• The New Mexico Produced Water Research Consortium and Texas Produced Water Consortium is developing risk frameworks to assess the potential for beneficial reuse of treated produced water.
• The NEWT Center for Nanotechnology Enabled Water Treatment is working to solve water treatment needs by applying nanoscale science and engineering.
• The Texas Partnership for Forests and Water, a statewide collaborative led by Texas A&M Forest Service, works to conserve and improve forested watersheds across the state.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 28 Greenhouse gases (GHGs) are not the full story of air emissions.
Our “Improving air quality” focus area covers other types of emissions, like nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) at our operated assets.
For new projects, we apply our air emissions Project Environmental Standards.
Existing operations regularly review opportunities to reduce air emissions.
Further, our corporate-wide initiatives to reduce GHG emissions intensity have the potential for additional reductions in non-GHG emissions.
In the Permian Basin, we are electrifying more of our operations.
Replacing gas-engine driven compressors with electric alternatives, for example, reduces combustion NOx emissions, as well as fugitive methane and associated VOCs.
We have also eliminated routine flaring in our heritage operated assets in the Permian Basin in line with the World Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring Initiative.1 Reducing flaring further reduces associated NOx emissions.
Our approach Clean air is important to the health of our communities and the environment.
Our approach to air quality management includes: • Understanding the composition and extent of our emissions.
• Meeting or exceeding regulatory requirements.
• Reducing air emissions to minimize potential impacts on local communities.
• Monitoring science and health standards related to air quality.
• Working with regulatory agencies to assess and address potential air quality issues.
We are guided by our Environment Policy, the standards set by our Project Environmental Standards, and the expectations in our Operations Integrity Management System.
Improving air quality Pursuing environmental excellence As we work to meet the world’s needs for energy and products, we maintain a focus on reducing emissions from our operations.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 29 At the Gulf Coast Growth Ventures joint venture that we operate near Corpus Christi, Texas, the Gregory-Portland community has seen little to no change in air quality since operations began.4 Through three community stations, The University of Texas has continuously monitored the area’s air quality since January 2020.
The Gregory-Portland area continues to meet quality standards set by federal and state agencies.
Analysis by the University of Texas at Austin shows that the overall air quality in the area ranks in or near the top 10% compared to data measured at the 40 monitors located throughout the state and operated or funded by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.
This data is provided by the Gregory-Portland Air Monitoring Program and analysis is shared with local residents via direct mail and a regularly updated website, maintained by a thirdparty affiliated with the University of Texas.
Spotlight: Gregory-Portland Air Monitoring Program Footnotes for Improving air quality 1 Reference to routine flaring herein is consistent with the World Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 Initiative/Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership’s principle of routine flaring and excludes safety and non-routine flaring.
Heritage Permian refers to Permian Basin assets prior to the acquisition of Pioneer that closed in May 2024.
2 Air emissions performance data includes recent acquisitions (Denbury data beginning November 2, 2023, and Pioneer data beginning May 3, 2024).
3 Historical performance data for NOx reflects a change in methodology for estimating NOx emissions from certain combustion equipment based on manufacturer performance data.
4 Based on 2020-2023 data as published in Gregory-Portland Air Monitoring Program Air Quality Report Card, Spring 2024; 2024 data not available at time of publication.
0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘19 ‘20 ‘21 ‘22 ‘23 ‘24 Year Million metric tons Air emissions from ExxonMobil operated assets only NOx SOx VOC Air emissions performance data From 2016 to 2024, total reportable emissions of VOCs, SOx, and NOx decreased by about 25% at operated assets.2 Lower energy demand during the global pandemic had a direct impact on air emissions.
However, our emission-reduction efforts also enabled us to keep these emissions below pre-pandemic levels, even as our throughput increased to record highs.
For historical data on our air emissions, please see the performance data table.3 ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 30 What is a waste mitigation hierarchy?
A waste mitigation hierarchy is commonly used by businesses, governments, and even individuals to prioritize waste management practices to minimize waste.
It consists of five stages: Avoid waste: Facilities are designed and operated to be efficient and to optimize the materials and feedstocks used.
Reduce | Recover | Reuse: Systems are in place to separate oil from water and solids, so oil is recovered and water is reused.
Where practical, waste materials are collected and sent for reuse, such as making fuel.
Recycle: Through the waste segregation processes, we collect materials like paper, plastic, electronics, aluminum, used oil, filters, glycols, scrap metal, tires, batteries, and aerosol cans to be recycled.
Treat: Where appropriate, impacted soil and groundwater at our operating and surplus sites are treated to reduce waste volume or eliminate contaminants.
We continuously look for ways to minimize waste through practices like process changes; raw material changes; material handling, storage, and transportation; as well as treatment and/or disposal of any remaining waste in compliance with applicable regulations.
Our approach We work to avoid generating waste and take a broad range of measures to mitigate and eliminate waste that is generated.
To do that, we use a waste mitigation hierarchy that starts with waste avoidance.
We are committed to the management and treatment of waste in a manner that incorporates industry best practices.
These measures include source reduction, reuse, recycling, reclamation, handling, storage, and transportation, as well as treatment and/or disposal of any remaining waste in compliance with applicable regulations.
Minimizing operational waste Pursuing environmental excellence United Nations Sustainable Development Goals related to this content.
For a more in-depth analysis, visit: https://gpair.ceer.utexas.edu/ Our use of a waste mitigation hierarchy prioritizes waste avoidance when feasible.
When it’s not, we work to reduce, recover, or reuse waste whenever possible.
We aim to dispose of waste only if other options have been exhausted, and we have robust processes to select waste sites that meet our high standards and expectations.
We regularly review and improve methods for managing waste at our facilities.
On-site waste personnel are trained on effective waste controls, applicable regulations, and our own environmental practices.
Corporate and regional staff provide technical guidance on waste reduction and recycling opportunities.
Everyone at ExxonMobil plays a role in reducing operational waste.
And the first step is finding ways to avoid it entirely.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 31 The joint venture we operate Gulf Coast Growth Ventures near Corpus Christi, Texas, uses extensive controls designed to prevent “nurdles”– the pellets created in our manufacturing of plastics – from escaping to the environment.
These controls include: • Pellet inceptors at the site outfalls.
• Interior unit collection systems.
• Pellet handling enclosures.
The site has maintained a record of zero reportable pellet discharges under OCS Blue reporting standards since beginning operations.1 Project Waste Management Standard Our Project Waste Management Standard, part of our overall Project Environmental Standards, informs our project selection and design decisions.
These standards help us to: • Ensure we have infrastructure in place to manage, treat, and dispose of waste from project construction and operations.
• Reduce the quantity of waste and the potential hazards associated with a project.
• Promote waste minimization, recycling, and reuse throughout the life of an asset.
Waste Facility Risk Assessment Program We are committed to using third-party waste facilities that follow industry best practices for waste management and environmental protection.
Through our Waste Facility Risk Assessment Program, we evaluate selected waste facilities in most countries where we operate to make sure they meet our requirements.
Facilities are reviewed by internal experts or assessed by independent contractors.
Areas of evaluation include: • Facility design and operations • Management systems • Regulatory compliance history • Community relations • Financial capacity • Site geology and groundwater • Groundwater • Safety • Security In 2024, 80% of the waste from our operated assets and remediation activities was managed by third-party facilities assessed by independent evaluators.
We expect this number to increase as the audit program grows.
Zero Waste to Landfill In 2018, ExxonMobil’s global network of lubricants blending and packaging plants, which manufacture all Mobil-branded lubricant products, earned a Zero Waste to Landfill Silver validation from Underwriters Laboratories.
ExxonMobil was the first petroleum products company to achieve this validation.
In the past two assessments, the global lubes network has achieved Gold validation by demonstrating a more than 95% diversion rate through our efforts to reduce, reuse, and recycle.
Solutions as simple as repair and reuse of container pallets and as complex as an advanced distillation process to recover laboratory solvent have enabled us to redeploy to new, productive uses more than 50,000 tons of waste produced per year.
Supplier waste management We aim to work with our suppliers to identify ways to reduce environmental impacts.
Our global sourcing strategy encourages consideration of environmental performance including finding and reducing waste and inefficiency in our supply chain.
Spotlight - Operation Clean Sweep (OCS): Best-in-class containment ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 32 abandoned, onshore processing plants were dismantled, and offshore and onshore pipelines were cleaned and flushed.
That same year, all seven of Sable’s offshore platforms were removed, and about 99% of the materials were recycled.
In 2024, nearly 17% of the material generated from decommissioning our significant onshore projects was diverted from landfills.2 Rehabilitation is the process of safely repurposing assets that no longer support our operations.
Our goal is to prevent legacy impacts on the environment while creating opportunities for beneficial reuse.
Safety & environment Best available science Local workforce and communities Balanced approach Honor obligations Our decommissioning plans incorporate applicable regulatory requirements and globally accepted practices.
We aim to be responsive to concerns and opportunities identified through external engagements and integrate the results into our decommissioning plans where appropriate.
Decommissioning an offshore asset can be complex and present unique challenges.
At these assets, our plans consider specific marine ecosystems and facility characteristics, including complexity, size, and weight.
The Sable energy project in Canada, for example, started its life in late 1959, when exploration near Nova Scotia began.
As Canada’s first offshore natural gas project, Sable provided decades of strategic benefits and billions of dollars of economic benefits to the region.
By 2020, wells were plugged and Decommissioning and rehabilitation Decommissioning is the process of dismantling, removing and/ or finding alternative uses for facilities.
Detailed planning and preparation can start up to 10 years before decommissioning activities begin.
Each site is unique.
Our approach may vary by location, type of asset, and local environmental and socioeconomic characteristics.
The decommissioning process can include a range of activities such as emptying and cleaning of production systems, plugging wells, dismantling structures, and transporting, recycling, or disposing of materials, and restoring local habitats.
In 2024, we developed five decommissioning principles for both onshore and offshore, reflecting our comprehensive approach.
These were rolled out to our decommissioning practitioners company-wide in 2025.
Our decommissioning principles When divesting real property, we work to identify ways to return it to beneficial reuse.
ExxonMobil Environmental and Property Solutions (E&PS) is our global organization that supports the remediation and stewardship of surplus onshore sites.
From the group’s creation in 2008 through 2024, E&PS has managed more than $9.3 billion of onshore remediation work and returned 4,000 properties to beneficial end uses.
In 2024, E&PS managed approximately 3,400 active remediation onshore sites in 22 countries.
Beginning in 2025, the acquired assets from Denbury and Pioneer will be incorporated into our portfolio as we continue the integration into our business.
Footnotes for Minimizing operational waste 1 For more details visit OCS Blue - Operation Clean Sweep 2 Does not include Denbury or Pioneer data.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 33 Supporting a just transition Meeting society’s critical needs for energy and products Our company has been in a continuous state of evolution and transition since it was founded.
Having a workforce capable of developing and leading new businesses to meet society’s evolving needs is how we have prospered for more than 140 years.
As we work to be a leader in a thoughtful energy transition, we will continue to develop our workforce, empower local economic growth, mitigate impacts of our operations, and engage with and support our communities.
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals related to this content.
Our approach Where there is energy poverty, there is poverty.
To be just, any approach to an energy transition must address society’s need for energy.
Guided by principles supporting a just transition, like those of Ipieca and the International Labour Organization, ExxonMobil aims to: • Respect human rights in our operations.
• Create value for customers, partners, and communities.
• Provide employees with unrivaled opportunities for growth with impactful work.
• Manage environmental and socioeconomic impacts throughout asset lifecycles.
• Engage with employees and communities in efforts to improve quality of life and foster mutual understanding and trust.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 34 Applying our approach Informed by relevant, globally recognized principles, such as those of the International Labour Organization, that support a “just transition,” we’re working to provide energy and products people need, lead in reducing our own and others’ greenhouse gas emissions, and deliver on our strategic objectives.
We operate facilities and market products across the globe.
Our standards, systems, processes, and programs help us to understand and manage risks and opportunities within the unique context of each location, from developing economies focused on energy security to communities with established workforces seeking new opportunities.
We invest in and support employees for the long-term.
We also work to contribute to the progress and prosperity of our communities.
Our work to build and maintain supply chains in the places we operate is one example.
We regularly engage and collaborate with industry, communities, employees, educational institutions, governments, businesses, and NGOs to support these objectives.
In our Low Carbon Solutions business and across the company, we apply our integrated environmental and socioeconomic management approach.
This supports our efforts to proactively identify and address potential socioeconomic risks and opportunities.
We update our assessments and management plans as needed to reflect changes to our operations or characteristics of a community.
The integration of our business, and the flexibility it gives us to pursue new technologies and markets, is another.
In this regard, we have always been engaged in what is now referred to as a “just transition.” Our employees are well positioned to play meaningful roles in a traditional energy business that will be vital for decades to come AND play an equally important role in the lower carbon emissions portfolio we are hard at work building.
In many cases, the “transition” is minimal, such as moving from conventional fuels to biofuels.
In others, we use our capabilities to innovate new processes, like drilling for lithium using our experience with oil or natural gas.
In areas like carbon capture and storage, we are expanding efforts we’ve been working on for more than 40 years and supporting a larger workforce as this part of our business grows.
Our commitment to our employees and the communities in which we live and work has been on display since the 19th century – proving to our employees and their friends, families, and neighbors that we care about them, value the work they do, and are committed to developing them for the duration of their careers.
At ExxonMobil, that is good business, and the just thing to do.
Positioned to lead in an energy transition Sustained emissions reductions require a thoughtful and comprehensive approach.
One that: • Balances benefits and costs.
• Is sensitive to society’s needs.
• Avoids economic hardship, market disruptions, and energy and product shortages.
Accomplishing this and moving society toward a net-zero future will require unprecedented collaboration at scale.
As we work to Protect Tomorrow.
Today., we consider the impact on workers, communities, supply chains, consumers, and broader economic development.
Our Global Outlook estimates that more than 4 billion people still lack access to reliable energy for housing, infrastructure, jobs, and mobility.
Providing for these basic energy needs is a must to meet the United Nations’ goal to “end poverty in all its forms everywhere.” And as a society, it’s our challenge to meet these needs while reducing emissions globally and managing the impacts of these actions on people.
Our culture of innovation and many decades of experience, enhanced through continuous training, are important Our employees Many of the capabilities and skills of today’s workforce are critical for an energy transition.
In fact, our work to reduce emissions is largely grounded in the transferable skillsets already present in our traditional businesses.
“Meaningful development” is one of our five strategic priorities.
We have a proven, long-term commitment to developing employees – our career-oriented approach to talent development results in strong retention and an average length of service of about 30 years for our career employees.
We are proud of this commitment and are determined to maintain it.
In 2022, we reorganized around three integrated core businesses: Upstream, Product Solutions, and Low Carbon Solutions.
This structure provides employees with greater access to growth opportunities, broadening their experiences and capabilities for future roles.
Our Low Carbon Solutions business includes employees with decades of experience at our company or elsewhere in the oil and natural gas industry, as well as functional experts who bring outside-in thinking.
New employees are offered onboarding and technical training, and leaders within the business line host regular sessions open to all employees designed to increase awareness of objectives and performance, ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 35 Our communities We believe that respecting human rights, managing community impacts, and making valued social investments are essential to our business success.
Our operations have the potential to impact communities both positively and negatively.
To address this, we regularly engage with a diverse range of stakeholders who are representative of the community to seek out opportunities and address their concerns.
We also identify and consult with potentially disadvantaged communities to understand possible barriers to their active engagement.
We work to tailor our engagements to be locally and culturally appropriate, providing accessible and inclusive channels for communication.
Inclusive engagement helps us to be responsive to concerns and opportunities.
Where appropriate, we integrate the results into our efforts.
We conduct engagements like these throughout the life of our assets.
This helps us avoid or reduce risks, enhance benefits, support investments, avoid delays, remedy impacts, and embrace opportunities at the local level.
Additional information can be found in the Managing socioeconomic impacts section of our Sustainability Report.
Our supply chain We understand the importance of building and maintaining a qualified and competitive supply chain where we operate.
As with our workforce, many of the goods and services essential for our business today are the same ones needed in the future.
As part of our supply chain portfolio, we purchase goods and services from local, small, and diverse suppliers and, where appropriate, work to build their capabilities through local programs to increase competition and innovation.
This approach helps to make a positive impact on communities by building long-term, local economic capacity in support of a just energy transition.
It also contributes to the objectives of the U.N.
Additional information can be found in the Contributing to the well-being of communities section of our Sustainability Report.
• When the Altona refinery was converted to a fuel import and storage facility, employees were offered new roles or support services if exiting the company.
In 2024, our company-wide survey continued to demonstrate employee engagement and pride in being part of ExxonMobil, as well as employee understanding of our purpose and strategy, our progress in fostering a productive and inclusive environment, and our efforts to strengthen our culture.
Additional information on our programs can be found in our annual Investing in People report.
Leveraging core capabilities for hydrogen At our plant in Baytown, Texas, we’re investing in virtually carbon-free hydrogen (with approximately 98% of the carbon captured and stored).
Tina Joseph, Baytown Hydrogen Project Manager, is a chemical engineer with a wealth of experience in our upstream business.
She leads a team developing the frontend engineering design and execution plans for the Baytown Hydrogen plant.
Currently under design, the plant could produce up to 1 billion cubic feet of hydrogen per day.
provide expertise on variety of topics related to the business, and seek feedback from the broader workforce.
Our unique, career-oriented approach results in many employees moving to new roles about every three years.
In 2024 around 12,000 employees took on new roles, gaining new skills and capabilities, often in different regions or parts of our business.
Our approach includes the ways we support employees when we acquire, divest or convert an asset, for any reason.
Some recent examples: • When we sold our refinery in Billings, Montana, all of the ~300 employees were offered jobs with the buyer.
“I am able to leverage my planning and projects skills from prior Upstream roles for this incredible project that will help deliver a low-carbon future.
Working at ExxonMobil, I get to work with such high-caliber and driven people on a project of this scale.” ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 36 ExxonMobil chairs the Just Transition Task Force within Ipieca, which is “the global oil and gas association for advancing environmental and social performance across the energy transition.” The task force supports the industry’s participation in international collaboration to transition to a lower-carbon world in a way that’s just and fair for workforces, communities, and consumers.
Industry collaboration We have a long history of collaborating with universities, national laboratories, industries, and companies of all sizes around the world.
We continuously seek new opportunities where each participant brings unique skills and capabilities to support the development of current and future workers and suppliers.
Many of our collaborations with universities and others are described in our Advancing Climate Solutions, Sustainability, and Investing in People reports.
We also leverage the scale of our industry through participation in trade associations and by expanding high-quality collaborations with local community and technical colleges.
The American Petroleum Institute (API) is an example of an industry association investing in the future of energy by fostering a diverse, inclusive, and resilient workforce.
API offers a broad range of training and certifications, and we consult on program designs and curriculum development in support of the current and the next generation of workers.
The Ipieca Just Transition Task Force participated in COP28, convening a discussion on “Business leadership on the Global Stocktake: catalysing investment while prioritising a just transition.” This work builds upon recent work like the task force’s just transition literature review and its statement on accelerating a just transition, which was developed in consultation with member companies and external industry stakeholders.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 37 Plastic products help defend against disease, preserve food, and are used in medical equipment that saves lives.
As described in our Global Outlook, prosperity and population are expected to grow around the world between now and 2050.
Plastics will be instrumental in supporting many of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, including good health, food preservation, and clean drinking water.
As living standards increase, plastics allow society to do more with less material and often with a smaller environmental footprint than alternatives.
A recent U.S.-based study found that polyethylene (PE) packaging - the most widely used plastic packaging - can reduce lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions by up to 70% compared to alternative materials like glass, paper, and aluminum.1 In transportation, plastics enable lighter vehicles, driving a 6% to 8% fuel efficiency gain for every 10% reduction in weight.2 The electric vehicle industry also relies on plastics to produce lightweight cars to extend battery range.
Our approach To meet society’s evolving needs, our efforts are focused both on enabling the societal benefits plastics provide and helping address the global issue of plastic waste.
Our approach includes: • Expanding our advanced recycling capacity to help further broaden the range of plastics that can be recycled; • Developing plastic solutions that enable our customers to make products that use less plastic; and • Supporting improvements in plastic waste recovery, gathering, and sorting.
Even lower-demand scenarios like the International Energy Agency’s Net Zero by 2050 (IEA NZE) project growth in plastics.
In agriculture, the plastic films made from our polymers support farming around the world by enabling: • Durable solutions for greenhouses that help farmers grow their crops all year long.
• Long-lasting mulch solutions that use less material and help increase crop production rates by reducing the frequent need to collect and replace used plastic film.
• Tough, puncture-resistant films for grain silos to reduce loss and spoilage.
Plastics are increasingly society’s material of choice due to their functional benefits and have overall lower life cycle greenhouse gas emissions compared to alternative materials in most applications.
Expanding the plastics life cycle Meeting society’s critical needs for energy and products Plastics make modern life possible – and they’re too valuable to waste.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 38 Consumers Plastic products Certified - circular plastics* Advanced recycling Collection & preparation Attribution Waste Most plastic is discarded as waste at end of life Plastic products deliver benefits that help make modern life possible.
Customers can use certified-circular plastics* to make products like electronics, packaging and car parts.
Customers recieve a certificate of circularity that matches the volume of their certified-circular plastic purchase to a corresponding amount of plastic waste that was transformed into usable raw materiales.
Plastic waste is collected, sorted and pre-processed for recycling.
Plastic waste is co-processed alongside fossil-based feedstocks and broken down at a molecular level to produce virgin-quality raw materials that can be made into valuable products.
The amount of usable raw materials made from plastic waste is attributed to certified-circular plastics via a mass balance approach*.
Fossil-based feedstock *ISCC PLUS mass balance approach using the “determined by mass” option with “certified free attribution” applied.
Does not represent GHG emissions or recycled content.
Mismanaged plastic waste is a global problem.
We believe that a more circular economy for plastics is an important part of the solution.
Around the world, only about 9% of all plastics are recycled.3 Even in areas with better waste and recycling infrastructure, like the European Union, less than 27% of plastic waste is recycled4 once it leaves consumers’ hands.
The rest is burned for energy, goes to landfills, or is discarded to the environment.
Supporting a more circular economy for plastics with advanced recycling With advanced recycling, plastic waste is broken down at the molecular level.
This allows even complex blends of plastics to be turned back into usable raw materials.
These are identical to the raw materials produced during the processing of fossilbased feedstocks and can be used to make a wide range of valuable products, including fuels, lubricants, and highperformance chemicals and plastics.
~1 ton For every ton of plastic waste processed through advanced recycling, society reduces the need to process of fossil-derived feedstocks.6 There are better uses for these materials.
We are helping to address the plastic waste challenge through advanced recycling (sometimes called chemical recycling) – giving plastic waste another life as new products that people need.
Many products are difficult to recycle through mechanical recycling – the traditional method of grinding and melting plastic waste.
But when both are used, mechanical recycling and advanced recycling could enable more types of plastic waste to be recycled.
ExxonMobil’s technology for advanced recycling is not burning waste, which would consume the molecules and make it impossible to make new products out of them.
Instead, we use a technology called “pyrolysis” to convert about 90% of the processed plastic waste into usable raw materials – a highly efficient process.
For every ton of certified-circular plastics sold, more than a ton of plastic waste avoids other end-of-life dispositions like landfill or incineration.5 ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 39 We sell certified-circular plastics corresponding to the amount of plastic waste we transform back into usable raw materials.
We do this using a mass balance approach that has been used in other industries for many years.
What is mass balance?
In short, it is an accounting process that can be used in complex value chains like ours in which one input (e.g., plastic waste) is mixed with other inputs in a way that the different inputs cannot be physically traced throughout the system.
This widely used approach helps our customers match the volume of their certified-circular plastic purchase to a corresponding amount of plastic waste that we transformed into usable raw materials through advanced recycling.
Similar concepts are used in other sectors to help customers and society keep track of their impact.
For example, if you buy “renewable energy” from your electricity provider, you’re paying for that energy to be generated and added to the grid, but the electricity that reaches your house might come from a mix of sources.
Our advanced recycling facilities and process are certified via an independent, third-party certification system called International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) PLUS.
ISCC is an association of more than 240 members, including research institutes and NGOs.
The certificate we provide our customers is not a claim that our certified-circular plastics contain specific amounts of “recycled content” or carry GHG benefits.
Rather, it represents an assurance that we followed a rigorous mass balance attribution system that is certified by a third-party.
This enables us to be transparent about our products, helping our customers, and their customers, progress and communicate circularity goals.
There is rising demand from consumers and customers for circularity, far more than mechanical recycling can provide.
Purchasing certified-circular plastics can enable our customers to achieve circularity goals, such as: • Unlocking the value of plastic waste by converting it into useful raw materials; • Monetizing the value of plastic waste to drive better collection and sorting; • Contributing to the growth of the recycling sector; and • Accelerating plastic recycling rates.
We are uniquely positioned with our scale, integration, and technology to rapidly expand advanced recycling capacity and help meet the needs of our customers and communities.
Customers so far include Sealed Air, Ahold Delhaize, Berry Global, Pactiv Evergreen, and Amcor, all supporting a more circular economy for food packaging.
Our Baytown advanced recycling facility started up commercial-scale operations in December 2022.
In late 2024, we announced plans to invest more than $200 million to expand advanced recycling operations in Baytown and Beaumont, Texas.
The investment will add 350 million pounds per year of advanced recycling capacity at these two sites, bringing our total capacity to 500 million pounds per year.
As of December 2024, our Baytown site has processed more than 80 million pounds of end-of-life plastic – with more to come as we collaborate to get more plastic collected, sorted, and ready to process.
Scaling up capacity to meet growing demand We are continuing to develop additional advanced recycling projects at manufacturing sites in North America, Europe and Asia, with the goal of reaching 1 billion pounds per year of advanced recycling capacity globally.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 40 Like most complex environmental challenges, broad collaboration is needed to address the issue of mismanaged waste.
This includes sound policy and investment in wastemanagement infrastructure.
Through organizations such as the Alliance to End Plastic Waste, we collaborate across the value chain to increase plastic waste collection and sorting to help support a more circular economy for plastics.
In December 2023, Cyclyx, our joint venture with Agilyx Corp. and LyondellBasell, announced plans to build its first Increasing recycling rates through collaboration and innovation Cyclyx Circularity Center (CCC).
This first-of-its-kind plastic waste processing facility will have the capacity to produce 300 million pounds of plastic feedstock per year to be used in both advanced and mechanical recycling of post-consumer, commercial, and industrial plastic waste.
As a founding member of the Houston Recycling Collaboration, ExxonMobil is working with others in industry and government to increase access to plastic recycling in the Houston area in support of the CCC.
Our VistmaxxTM performance polymers make recycling easier by making polyethylene and polypropylene more compatible, which allows them to “mix in the melt” and removes the need for mechanical recyclers to separate these materials for processing.
Collaboration, again, leads to even better results.
For example, ExxonMobil Asia Pacific Research & Development Co., Ltd partnered with Shantou Mingca Packaging earlier this year on an ultra-low density shrink film that can be manufactured with minimal adjustments in production lines.
More importantly, it can be more easily recycled in communities with programs Responsible manufacturing: the right products the right way and facilities in place to collect plastic film, even by traditional recyclers, as certified by TÜV Rheinland, a global leader in inspection services.
Our efforts are further supported by our systems to responsibly manage plastics manufacturing, including the global standards we have set across all of our resin-handling operations.
These standards are more stringent than the laws and regulations related to plastic pellet loss in many of the places we operate, and we collaborate with industry through Operation Clean Sweep-Blue to share best practices.7 Footnotes for Expanding the plastics life cycle 1 Based on the 2025 study “Polyethylene packaging and alternative materials in the United States: A life cycle assessment” (Science of the Total Environment).
2 Department of Energy statements at https://www.energy.gov/eere/vehicles/lightweight-materials-cars-and-trucks.
3 Based on OECD Global Plastics Outlook: https://www.oecd.org/content/dam/oecd/en/publications/reports/2022/02/global-plastics-outlook_a653d1c9/de747aef-en.pdf 4 Plastics Europe: The Circular Economy for Plastics: A European Analysis 5 Certified-circular plastics are virgin-quality plastics that are accompanied by a certificate that matches the mass of virgin quality plastics that we sell to a corresponding amount of plastic waste that we transformed back into usable raw materials through advanced recycling.
6 On a global, macroeconomic basis, assuming constant demand.
7 Pellet loss refers to the unintended release of plastic resin into the environment during manufacturing, transportation, handling, or processing.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 41 Progressing product safety Meeting society’s critical needs for energy and products This work includes: • Issuing safety data sheets.
• Labeling products accurately.
• Addressing regulatory developments.
• Supporting our customers’ safe use and disposal of our products.
We develop testing methods and models for our own use, and we collaborate with others to inform our efforts and share what we know.
We factor in relevant data about health, environmental exposure, and use of our products.
This information is communicated to employees and customers to help mitigate potential impacts of our products.
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals related to this content.
Throughout the many value chains of the products we make, we emphasize safety, product stewardship, regulatory compliance, and science-based advocacy.
Our approach • We aim to provide the energy and products the world needs in a way that helps to protect human health and the environment.
• Our scientists are at the forefront of product safety research.
We work to identify and manage risks associated with our products and provide the appropriate level of safety for people and the environment.
• Our Product Safety Policy is part of our Standards of Business Conduct and is incorporated into our management systems.
It is consistent with external product safety standards, including those provided by the American Chemistry Council Product Safety Code.
Product standards and safe handling Our chemicals, lubricants, and fuels products meet or exceed applicable regulations, standards, and guidelines.
These include: • Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) • EU Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) • Global Framework on Chemicals - For a Planet Free of Harm from Chemicals and Waste | UNEP - UN Environment Programme We also apply relevant standards for product safety where no regulations exist to enable communication of product safety aspects to our customers.
We work to identify and manage risks associated with our products and to avoid products that cannot meet an appropriate level of safety.
Zero work-related workforce (employee or contractor) fatalities caused by transport incidents from 2017-2024 Safety and environmental standards also apply to the transport of our products.
Periodic risk assessments are part of our transportation processes and help us to find opportunities to further avoid and mitigate risk.
Examples include using GPS to track movements and our work with intermodal providers on positive train control – a method to avoid collisions.
We share good practices and promote safe transport of our products with industry peers and emergency responders through regular engagements, and we continue to improve training for first responders both inside and outside our company.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 42 Measuring performance We monitor our performance based on our established safety standards.
A key internal metric we use to track the success of our product safety management system is the total number of high-consequence product stewardship-related incidents.
A high-consequence incident is measured through a combination of potential impacts including safety, health, environmental, and regulatory.
Zero high-consequence product stewardshiprelated incidents in our Fuels, Lubricants, and Chemicals businessess again in 2024 Communication and collaboration Our Product Stewardship Information Management System (PSIMS) is the primary way we share potential product hazards and risks with our customers.
The safety data sheets in our PSIMS include details on safe handling, transport, use, and disposal of our products.
In 2015, ExxonMobil signed on to the Responsible Care® Global Charter – a unifying long-term commitment to the safe management of chemicals.
Since 2021, we have focused on continuous improvement of our PSIMS.
This ongoing project is designed to improve the accessibility and clarity of our product formulas and to expand our supplier data.
This upgrade provides key personnel at the manufacturing sites access to the most current product safety information.
We collaborate with industry, academia, regulators, and policy makers to help ensure that the best available science informs industry product safety policy.
Groups we work with include: • Health and Environmental Sciences Institute (HESI) • European Centre for Ecotoxicology and Toxicology of Chemicals (ECETOC) • Health Effects Institute (HEI) In 2024, we actively managed a library of >100,000 safety data sheets in compliance with the regulations of the countries where we operate.
We successfully distributed >200,000 safety data sheets to customers across 150 countries.
The multi-faceted research led by ExxonMobil Biomedical Sciences (EMBSI) directly informs operations and processes at ExxonMobil.
Their diverse team of more than 75 scientists conducts research in various fields including epidemiology, toxicology, and environmental sciences.
EMBSI also oversees toxicity testing associated with product registration, develops safety information to support the safe use of our products, and conducts evidence-based risk assessments.
Spotlight: Thought leadership from ExxonMobil Biomedical Sciences Since 2014, EMBSI scientists have published more than 270 peer-reviewed papers (which can be found online at Web of Science).
In that time, experts from the EMBSI team have also given more than 900 technical presentations to science conferences, regulatory agencies, and academia.
Among them were the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry, the Society of Toxicology, and the International Society of Exposure Sciences.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 43 In 2023, we maintained industry-leading personnel safety performance with a Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) of 0.02 per 200,000 work hours.
We sustained this rate in 2024.1,2 We track injuries and illnesses for both employees and contractors.
This includes fatalities, fatal incident rate, lost time incident rate, and total recordable incident rate.
These safety metrics can be found in our Sustainability Performance Data Table.
When it comes to the safety of our people, our Nobody Gets Hurt aspiration supports our mindset to be the most responsible operator in our industry.
It underpins every decision we make as a company, from the boardroom to the wellhead.
Our commitments are documented in the Safety, Health, Environment, and Product Safety policies found in our Standards of Business Conduct.
We have long embedded safety into our culture, reinforced by leadership, standards, practices, and experience.
We focus on an integrated framework of systems, processes, tools, and behaviors aimed at eliminating injuries and fatalities.
Care for our workforce is a core value and foundational to what we do.
Guided by Nobody Gets Hurt, we continue to improve the processes that support our safety vision, further enhancing our protocols, and making use of internationally recognized best practices.
Our approach We aspire to a working environment where Nobody Gets Hurt.
We are committed to protecting the safety, security, and health of our employees, our contractors, and others involved with our operations, as well as our customers and the public.
We focus on continuous improvement through our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS), which sets expectations for managing the risks inherent to our business.
Lost time incident rate (LTIR)1,2 Incidents per 200,000 work hours Leading in pesonnel safety Safeguarding people United Nations Sustainable Development Goals related to this content.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 44 Setting expectations for excellence We establish annual continuous improvement goals and objectives in a number of areas, including: • Personnel Safety Management System.
• Life-saving rules and actions and Start Work Checks.
• Culture of Health.
For more than 30 years, our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) has guided the daily activities of our global workforce by setting clear expectations for managing the risks inherent to our business.
Third-party providers and contractors are also included in the OIMS framework, and we include specific safety and health expectations in our contracts.
Leaders engage with their teams to drive effective application of OIMS.
Each business unit has leadership management systems and work processes to help meet operations objectives.
Our OIMS process meets the requirements of ISO 14001/45001 as annually certified/attested by Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance.
The ISO management system helps us further manage potential impacts, fulfill compliance obligations, and identify opportunities for improvement.
Our Incident Investigation Framework is consistent with International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) 621 and makes use of enhanced techniques and learning standards “Nothing is more important than the safety of our people.
Keeping them safe requires intense focus and relentless discipline, 24 hours a day, every single day.” Darren Woods Chairman and CEO Personnel Safety Management System From 2021 through 2023, a cross-functional team worked to create an integrated, end-to-end safety standard for our operations.
The team engaged both inside and outside the company to discover, benchmark, and evaluate the latest in safety best practices.
This work was anchored in OIMS, grounded in behavioral science, and drawn from best practices in the industry and our own field experience.
Rollout is expected to be complete by the end of 2026.
This new Personnel Safety Management System (PSMS) is designed to consistently deliver “safety in the moment.” Absence of incidents is, of course, a key measure of success, but PSMS goes further.
Leading indicators such as safeguard effectiveness, leader engagements, and worker engagements help us verify and validate our efforts.
The system is a tool to enable effective management of safeguards before and during higher-risk work by: • Proactively learning from work.
• Building and validating the safety capacity of our workforce.
• Driving effective safety engagement across interfaces.
• Leveraging the latest human performance concepts.
It all ties back to our core value of Care.
The PSMS clarifies expectations at every level to teach people how to be safety leaders no matter where they work.
It establishes a streamlined personnel safety standard with common language, processes, and tools.
And it prioritizes our efforts according to risk and life-altering potential.
Through repetition and coaching, the PSMS is helping to further build the safety capacity of our workforce.
The key components of PSMS include: PSMS Personnel Safety Management System Safety in the Moment Focused Safeguard management for Life Altering Injury Work (LAI) Leadership Effective behaviors with defined expectations by role.
Streamlined activities for non-LAI work supporting Nobody Gets Hurt Safety Capacity Self-reliant capacity built and validated over extended duration Tailored approach based on risk and workforce segment Contractor Engagement ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 45 Start to finish: Life Saving Rules & Actions Life Saving Rules & Actions (LSRAs) are an important part of our PSMS.
Our employees and contractors work together to execute the LSRAs for routine work with higher-risk elements.
They also work to enhance our understanding of higher-risk work like confined-space entry, mechanical lifting, and working at heights.
This helps to verify that safeguards are in place before work begins and through the end of the process.
Our LSRAs fully integrate the language of the IOGP Life Saving Rules program (IOGP Life Saving Rules Report 459).
Start Work Checks support our LSRAs.
These checks are designed to help supervisors and crew leaders lead interactive, detailed safeguard verification discussions before higher-risk work even begins.
This process is aligned with concepts in IOGP Start Work Checks Report 459-1.
Targeted Learning Observations (TLOs) are peer-to-peer opportunities for our people to observe their coworkers in action.
After each TLO, the observer, the observed, and a supervisor discuss the work tasks as planned and the work as it was done to assess how the safeguards were maintained.
Leadership and teamwork Normal work Higher consequence work Design Learn Human Performance approach Human performance Human performance concepts are part of our operations, including human performance fluency training.
These concepts are a key feature both of OIMS and PSMS processes and tools (e.g., pre-task briefing, job safety analysis, task observation).
In 2024, we jointly hosted a Safety Collaboration Forum with others in the industry, with a specific focus on human performance.
Members of the forum have formed a community of practice to maintain focus on this issue and develop shared frameworks for the industry.
Culture of Health To improve the health, quality of life, and productivity of employees, we provide a comprehensive Culture of Health program.
This program provides an environment and resources that actively and consistently promote healthy and safe behaviors.
This includes biometric screening, health surveys, well-being champions, resources to help employees with resiliency, and more.
Training Our global training system delivers role-based safety, health, and security training to employees.
Progress and completion are tracked and stewarded, and refresher training is offered as needed.
ExxonMobil-specific and other relevant training is shared with contractors and others if required for services in our facilities.
Non-operated joint ventures also have access to certain training materials if they have written agreements with us.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 46 Collaboration We participate in a wide range of forums to help improve practices across the industry and around the world.
We have representatives on more than 40 committees and forums related to health, safety, and security in groups that include: • Energy Institute: The Energy Institute is a professional membership body that provides training, shares knowledge, and supports energy professionals globally.
• International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP): The IOGP works to improve safety, environmental, and social performance in our industry.
• American Fuels and Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM): AFPM represents the refiners and manufacturers, with a focus on industry safety and policy.
• Texas Chemical Council: The Texas Chemical Council promotes the interests of the industry in Texas, emphasizing safety and environmental responsibility.
• American Petroleum Institute (API): API is the primary trade association for the oil and natural gas industry in the United States, with focused safety efforts that include the Onshore Safety Alliance and the Center for Offshore Safety.
• Construction Users Roundtable: This group addresses issues related to safety, labor relations, and productivity in the construction industry.
• Center for Chemical Process Safety (CCPS): CCPS develops and promotes best practices in process safety management for the chemical and petroleum industries.
“We’re known for excellent execution and the discipline of our processes at ExxonMobil, and those are the same things that drive our most-responsible-operator mindset when it comes to the safety of our people.” Darren Swisher, MS CSP Member: IOGP Safety Committee, IOGP Fatality and Permanent Impairment Expert Group, IOGP Control of Work Expert Group, AFPM Safety Committee, AFPM Walk the Job Steering Committee, Global Benchmarking Group Safety Team Darren is our Global Safety & Risk Operations Support Manager who leads our personnel safety efforts and works across our operations to improve safety performance.
Footnotes for Leading in personnel safety 1 Industry benchmark: The International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) safety performance indicators and the American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) Report of Occupational Injuries and Illnesses are the Upstream and Downstream industry benchmarks, respectively.
IOGP safety performance indicators data converted from incidents per 1 million work hours to incidents per 200,000 work hours.
Performance data may include rounding.
ExxonMobil analysis of data published by AFPM and IOGP.
2024 industry data not available at time of publication.
2 ExxonMobil LTIR based on full-year performance data for each year noted as of March 12, 2025.
Performance data may include rounding.
Incidents include injuries and illnesses.
ExxonMobil workforce includes employees, contractors, and recent acquisitions (Denbury data beginning November 2, 2023 and Pioneer data beginning May 3, 2024).
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 47 As one of the driving principles behind our core value of Care, it sounds simple.
In practice, it drives us to manage risks in a proactive, disciplined way, with a focus on the inherent hazards associated with the vast equipment and complex processes that are essential to our business.
A process safety event could potentially impact our workforce, the community, and the environment.
Because of this, we set a high bar for ourselves.
Our approach Our objective is to help protect our people, communities, and the environment by successfully managing and enhancing process safety.
The primary purpose of process safety is to keep hydrocarbons, chemicals, and process water controlled and safely managed through all phases of our operations.
Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) is the core of how we manage process safety risks.
Risk management strategies and higher-consequence process safety risks are stewarded by our Management Committee as part of our approach to enterprise risk management.
Our Upstream, Product Solutions, and Low Carbon Solutions business lines develop and execute these strategies.
Centralized support comes from the ExxonMobil Technology and Engineering Company and our Global Operations & Sustainability team.
OIMS establishes clear standards and expectations, with safeguards applied to the ways we design, operate, and maintain our sites.
We manage and verify these safeguards through: • Regular inspections.
Everyone at ExxonMobil plays a role in process safety excellence In line with OIMS expectations, we also monitor the performance of our operated and non-operated assets (e.g., joint ventures).
Where we see opportunities for improvement of our non-operated assets, we encourage operators to consider them.
We apply industry standards, including the API Recommended Practice 754 and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) No.
Our process safety indicators classify and track incidents by severity from “Tier 1” to “Tier 3.” Tier 1 process safety events are analyzed through our “Learning from Incidents” process, and corrective actions are identified to guide further improvement.
Our recently acquired Pioneer assets were brought into this process and began reporting internally in 2025 – see our Metrics and Data table1 for our reporting on prior years.
We discuss process safety events with multiple groups each year to help identify industry trends and apply learnings.
Participating groups include the American Petroleum Institute (API), American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers Enhancing process safety Safeguarding people United Nations Sustainable Development Goals related to this content.
“Look after each other.” ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 48 Our Enhancing Process Safety Program In 2018, we launched a focused initiative to take process safety to the next level.
We added to and improved upon the standards set by OIMS, enhancing our expectations related to: • Leadership.
• Human performance principles.
• Critical task execution.
Effective scenario management is key to preventing and mitigating process safety events and responding if one occurs.
This includes understanding major hazards, things that may cause an incident, and the variety of ways events could unfold during and after an event.
People are our most important safeguard.
Our human performance principles focus on the human factors that can contribute to safe operations or potentially lead to a safety incident.
Our people play a vital role, and we offer mental health check-ins so that our employees can: • Ask for help.
• Pause work if needed.
• Report issues to management.
In addition, our open-door communication procedures provide avenues for anonymous reporting of employee concerns.
Our zero-spill mindset Our products are critical to global prosperity and quality of life, and we recognize that making them comes with a certain level of risk.
That’s why we train our employees to have a zero-spill mindset, and we design and operate our facilities with that objective in mind.
Our objective is to prevent unplanned releases to the environment.
We are committed to: • Prevention, mitigation, and elimination of spills from our operations.
• Maintaining processes, resources, and personnel to respond to spills, however unlikely they are to occur.
Our objective is to prevent unplanned releases to the environment.
We seek to use best practices based on our own research and the work of others in the industry to continually reduce the number of spills.
Prevention Our Spill Prevention Program sets procedures across the company to: • Inspect and maintain equipment.
• Train our people on safe practices.
• Conduct practice drills and communicate lessons learned.
All types of spills are covered, using the overarching principles of our internal frameworks described in OIMS.
The program addresses a wide range of scenarios, considering the many human and non-human factors that could potentially lead to a spill.
At our refineries, for example, our human-factor approach led us to create a best-practice guide for identifying and mitigating 17 high-risk elements.
Transport of our products is also an important focus.
Millions of barrels of petroleum and chemical products move through thousands of miles of pipeline around the world.
The integrity of this process is overseen through comprehensive management programs.
In the United States, for example, our affiliate monitors and tests for corrosion and other integrity concerns with ground and air patrols, state-of-theart detection systems, alarms, and other technologies to continuously control and monitor pipeline operations.
(AFPM), International Association of Oil & Gas Producers, and the American Chemistry Council.
In addition, we are a founding member and remain active in the Advancing Process Safety Initiative, a collaboration between the AFPM and the API.
Actively managing spill reduction, applying learnings to recent acquisitions2 Spills > Barrel (BBL) Number of spills ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 49 Response In case of a spill, we want to be ready.
Rapid, comprehensive response is how we work to minimize impacts.
Our Regional Response Teams (RRTs) include employees from more than 30 countries, with subject matter experts, technical experts, and experienced responders from business lines and functions across the company.
These teams use the work of our spill response research program, which was initiated more than half a century ago and remains unique in the industry.
Emergency simulations, like our “tabletop” and field exercises, help us ensure readiness.
These are conducted in accordance with management guidelines and regulatory requirements.
Each year, we conduct comprehensive exercises that span several days.
At sites around the world, emergency response teams and hundreds of employees, contractors, and specialists run through realistic, higher-consequence scenarios.
These exercises often include participation from local authorities and agencies.
In May 2023, for example, the RRT worked with employees to assess and enhance Esso Exploration Angola’s incident management team’s ability to respond quickly and effectively.
In total, 245 people were involved in the drill, from 22 countries, including more than 20 people from nongovernmental organizations or mutual aid partners.
In August 2024, the RRT gathered in Baytown for the largest exercise in the site’s 105-year history, simulating a worst-case discharge, as defined by regulations that cover the site.
The exercise involved more than 240 people from inside and outside the company, including representatives from the Environmental Protection Agency, the Texas General Land Office, and both the Harris County and the Baytown Offices of Emergency Management.
Emergency preparedness We are prepared for a wide range of events, including natural disasters, pandemics, and operational incidents.
Each of our facilities has access to trained responders and resources.
Centralized and cross-functional teams develop and practice emergency response tactics through incident management teams and emergency support groups around the world.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 50 Cybersecurity Attacks against other global companies in recent years highlight the need for all companies to maintain strong cybersecurity safeguards.
Our multilayered approach to preventing and mitigating the risks of cyberattacks helps protect us against business disruptions and threats that could materially affect our data, facilities, operations, or the safety and privacy of our people.
We analyze potential threats and implement tools, policies, and architectures to address risk.
We leverage industry standard frameworks, including the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, to identify potential gaps in our defenses, and we work with independent, third-party cybersecurity experts to help test and evaluate the strength of our cybersecurity program.
Our Form 10-K filing provides details about the management and scope of our cybersecurity program.
Data protection We have comprehensive programs designed to protect the integrity and privacy of personal, corporate, and customer data.
With respect to the handling of personal data, our data privacy program is designed to handle such information, including that of customers, suppliers, and employees, in a manner consistent with applicable laws.
ExxonMobil’s data privacy program includes a code of conduct and data privacy practices that encompass common principles (e.g., purpose limitation, transparency, data security, accuracy of Workplace security Protecting our people at all levels of the organization is our top priority in security.
Our security programs are risk-based, flexible, and responsive to the places we operate and comply with applicable laws.
Periodic security reviews at our sites address current and potential threats.
Each assessment looks at factors such as: • Location.
We monitor local conditions and keep detailed readiness plans for many risks, including: • Emergency response.
• Evacuation and intruder response.
• Bomb threat response.
• Active shooter response.
We provide tailored guidance for employees in higherrisk countries with challenging security environments.
Our teams continue to work to improve our risk management methodologies, threat-assessment capabilities, and technical security management processes through drills, training programs, and industry forums.
Collaboration We work with others in our industry to share best practices, improve capabilities, and facilitate global spill response and management.
We also pursue innovative solutions and advance fundamental scientific understanding of spill response through collaboration.
Research currently underway includes potential of chemical herders and next-generation dispersants for managing oil spills, assessing alternatives to natural gas flaring, and more.
Groups we work with include: • Australian Marine Oil Spill Centre, focused on rapid containment and recovery of all oil types along the Australian coast.
• Marine Spill Response Corporation, the largest joint industry group focused solely on oil spill and emergency response in the United States, providing access to their STARs network of trained contractors in about 250 locations.
• Marine Well Containment Company, a not-for-profit focused on deepwater well containment response in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.
We are a founding member.
• Oil Spill Global Response Network, a global collaboration among oil-response companies to provide centers of expertise for spill preparedness, response, and recovery.
• Oil Spill Response Limited, an industry-owned spill-response cooperative with members representing more than two- thirds of the world’s oil production, and their Global Oiled Wildlife Response Service.
• Western Canada Spill Services Ltd., which supplements member companies’ programs with additional training and equipment.
• Oil Spill Combat Team, the largest spill response center in Indonesia.
• Eastern Canada Response Corporation, which provides services and equipment to ships and oil-handling facilities under Canadian law.
• Multi-Partner Research Initiative, bringing together government, academia, response organizations, oil companies, indigenous communities, and other experts worldwide.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 51 personal data, and data minimization) and are designed to provide simplified and consistent guidance to meet global data privacy requirements.
Training and business continuity Awareness is one of the best defenses.
That’s why cybersecurity education is a priority.
We perform annual training and conduct routine testing of cybersecurity awareness to help our people identify and respond to cybersecurity risks.
This includes ongoing mock phishing and other exercises to reinforce safe behaviors.
We manage business continuity as a key component of our controls and OIMS to prepare us if an incident were to occur.
Our business continuity plans (BCPs) include a suite of enablers that we can activate as needed.
Our cyber BCPs are regularly reviewed for compliance, performance, and opportunities for improvement.
In addition, periodic drills help our workforce keep up with this evolving space while helping us evaluate our ability to maintain safe operations for critical business units.
Artificial Intelligence We have a history of leveraging technology to drive business value.
We consider potential security and safety risks of new and developing technologies.
The power of artificial intelligence (AI) technology, for example, can expand the capabilities of our workforce.
AI has the potential to empower our employees to leverage their skills and, in doing so, boost operational efficiency, and enhance our business capabilities.
To bring AI-enabled solutions to our business at scale we: • Test reliability, security, and performance.
• Develop tools and best practices.
• Gain exposure to emerging technologies and suppliers.
• Develop guardrails and our AI strategy for adoption at scale.
Our strategy brings our efforts together in a single ecosystem to help scale AI technology across the organization.
Our strategy is built on six elements: • Business-led: Reimagine our business functions and deliver outstanding customer experiences at lower costs.
• Talent: Equip people with AI skills and capabilities to envision and execute innovation.
• Operating model: Develop synergies as we find uses for AI across the company at pace and scale, while reducing costs.
• Technology: Provide the right tools and technology to address business needs and opportunities.
• Data: Continuously improve the quality and availability of our data to provide relevant insights and enhance decision making.
• Responsible AI: Based on industry standards like the NIST AI Risk Management Framework, our Responsible AI Principles guide our efforts in aspects related to safety, security, fairness, and privacy.
Footnotes for Enhancing process safety 1 Process safety Tier 1 events metric includes Denbury data beginning on April 1, 2024.
2 ExxonMobil data includes hydrocarbon, drilling fluid, and chemical spills greater than 1 barrel (bbl).
Based on performance data as of March 12, 2025, including recent acquisitions (Denbury data beginning November 2, 2023, and Pioneer data beginning May 3, 2024).
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 52 Respecting human rights is important to the well-being of our communities and our workforce – and it’s simply the right thing to do.
Our core values — integrity, care, courage, excellence, and resilience — guide every aspect of our operations.
These values are reflected in our comprehensive approach to human rights, which is integrated into our policies, practices, and expectations.
See our Statement on Human Rights.
Our commitment to respect human rights is a cornerstone of how we work to Protect Tomorrow.
Our approach We are unwavering in our commitment to respecting human rights, guided by the goals of universally recognized human rights principles, as a core principle in our operations: • We strive to have a positive influence on our workforce and in the communities where we operate.
• We do not use forced or compulsory labor in our operations, and we forbid the use of child labor in our workforce.
• We condemn human rights violations in any form, and we actively express these views in our engagements with governments and other stakeholders.
Embedding human rights into our policies Our Standards of Business Conduct include our “foundation policies.” These define the ethical behavior we expect from our directors, officers, and employees.
Our Board of Directors adopts and oversees the administration of these policies, which aim to uphold the values of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption.
Our wholly or majorityowned subsidiaries generally adopt policies similar to our foundation policies.
These policies include: • Ethics: Compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
• Health: Identifying, evaluating, and managing health risks related to our operations.
• Complaint procedures and open-door communication: Encouraging employees to ask questions, voice concerns, and make suggestions.
• Environment: Conducting business in a way that balances environmental and economic needs.
• Safety: Ensuring the safety of employees, contractors, customers, and the public.
• Equal Employment Opportunity: Providing equal employment opportunities in line with applicable laws and regulations.
We incorporate key aspects of the 2011 U.N.
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights “Protect, Respect and Remedy” framework and the U.N Global Compact into our policies.
Our efforts reflect the spirit and intent of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Our Standards of Business Conduct also support the International Labour Organization’s 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (ILO Declaration).
The policies, procedures, and practices we implement consider applicable laws and local customs to support the objectives of the ILO Declaration.
These include: • Freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.
• Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor.
• Effective abolition of child labor.
• Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
• Safe and healthy working environments.
Respecting human rights Safeguarding people ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 53 Focus areas What we do More information Communities and people We strive to amplify the positive impact of our business on local communities while diligently managing environmental, socioeconomic, and health risks.
Our approach to socioeconomic management is integral to our respect for human rights.
Practices encompass key areas such as: • Community health, safety, and security.
• Local economic development.
• Rights of Indigenous peoples.
Managing socioeconomic impacts Integrating human rights into our practices Our due diligence practices help identify and assess potential human rights impacts, and other socioeconomic risks and opportunities, early on in our activities.
We aim to avoid or reduce risks with thorough planning, effective mitigation, monitoring, and other measures.
For example, as part of our Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Health Impact Assessment and Management process, we conduct initial country assessments that identify qualitative human rights risks.
We also use a human rights risk screening tool to analyze risks at country, project, and operations levels, incorporating elements of global human rights principles.
Our approach to socioeconomic management supports our assessment and management of human rights aspects in our communities.
It is guided by our Environmental Aspects Guide, which considers environmental, social, and economic factors, as well as our Environment Policy and Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS).
We provide access to remedy through transparent, accessible, and culturally appropriate channels for individuals or communities to raise concerns, consistent with international standards.
We make these available through our community and operations-level grievance-management processes, as well as our complaint procedures and open-door communication for employees.
As part of these processes, we seek to support confidentiality and non-retaliation.
More information on our grievance-management process can be found here.
By monitoring feedback and emerging trends, and using grievance mechanisms at our sites, we improve our management plans and update our training programs with new insights.
When applicable, our practices are guided by the: • Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights • U.N.
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples • ILO Convention 169 Concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent Countries Our Statement on Labor and the Workplace emphasizes our commitment to positive, productive, and supportive work environments.
Our Statement on Security and Human Rights commits us to protecting the security of personnel, facilities, and operations while respecting human rights.
This framework guides our interactions with government-assigned and private security providers.
It also offers guidance for documenting and reporting alleged human rights abuses.
Our Supplier, Vendor, and Contractor Expectations call on the companies we work with to: • Operate consistent with the ILO Declaration.
• Respect human rights consistent with U.N.
• Adhere to stringent compliance, anti-corruption, conflict of interest, and safety guidelines.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 54 Workforce For our workforce, respect for human rights means focusing on safety, security, health, career development, and our procedures for complaints and open-door communication.
Workforce development Workplace security Workforce safety Complaint procedures and opendoor communication Focus areas What we do More information Suppliers We use an integrated, risk-based due diligence approach, with a focus on workplace rights, to identify and manage potential human rights risks among our suppliers.
Before awarding contracts, we use third-party data to screen suppliers for compliance in areas like sanctions, anti-corruption, and human trafficking.
Our due diligence process to identify forced labor risks focuses on three factors: the supplier, the commodity, and the location.
If higher risks are identified, we further assess the supplier’s policies and risk management practices before proceeding.
Working with suppliers Supplier expectations Annual supplier letter Security Since 2002, we have been a member of the Voluntary Principles Initiative (VPI), a multi-stakeholder effort supporting the implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR).
In 2023, VPI began publishing on their website the yearly report we provide on our activities and processes in support of the principles.
Our security service contracts typically include provisions requiring appropriate training on aspects of international principles, local laws, and regulations: • ExxonMobil’s Statement on Security and Human Rights.
• Local laws and regulations.
• Provisions of the U.N. Universal Declaration on Human Rights.
• International Labour Organization’s 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
• U.N. Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials.
Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials.
Our standard contract provisions also require contractors to immediately remove personnel credibly accused of human rights abuses and to monitor, report, and investigate all such incidents.
We engage with host governments as needed to support security and respect for human rights in local operations.
Where we are required to work with government security staff, we seek written agreements with the host nations that include expectations consistent with the goals of the VPSHR.
We help train security providers on the goals of the VPSHR and provide targeted training for ExxonMobil personnel globally.
The training focuses on our expectations for host government security deployment, including identification of the risks of security-related human rights impacts in communities.
ExxonMobil’s Statement on Security and Human Rights ExxonMobil’s 2024 VPSHR disclosure ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 55 Data protection and privacy We have comprehensive programs designed to protect the integrity and privacy of personal, corporate, and customer data.
Privacy statement Enhancing process safety - Cybersecurity From the start of construction to the end of a project, we often provide temporary or long-term housing for our employees and contractors on-site.
We tailor our housing requirements to each project and location.
We use frameworks like the International Finance Corporation standards or the ILO Maritime Labour Convention, 2006, for offshore camps, to guide our requirements.
Our worker housing and accommodations include: • Healthy and hygienic housing.
• Nutritious, balanced meals that respect cultural preferences.
• Means to register grievances without fear of reprisal.
• Facilities and opportunities for exercise, recreation, relaxation, and worship.
• Safe and comfortable living spaces without discrimination based on gender, race, origin, or other protected statuses.
Additionally, we aim to foster an environment of understanding and tolerance among our workforce.
This helps minimize cultural conflicts and reduces the risk of worker unrest or dissatisfaction.
Spotlight: Workforce housing and accommodations Focus areas What we do More information Reinforcing human rights through training We reinforce our commitment to respecting human rights through training.
Our Standards of Business Conduct are integral to onboarding new employees and are reiterated annually.
Our regular required business practices training covers essential topics like foundation policies, open-door communication, and procedures for raising concerns.
Our wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries generally provide similar training.
Training is available to all employees globally to build an understanding of these topics and an awareness of human rights risks.
Human rights is also included as a core element of our instructor-led socioeconomic management training.
In addition, tailored human rights training is provided to employees in our procurement function.
Transparency and collaboration We actively participate in international initiatives to share knowledge about human rights and communicate our performance.
This includes our work with Ipieca, the “global oil and gas association for advancing environmental and social performance.” In recent years, ExxonMobil helped develop new editions of the Human Rights Due Diligence Guide, the Labour Rights Risk Identification in the Supply Chain, the Supply Chain Library of Questions and Resources, and Online Labour Rights Training – all published by Ipieca.
Another example is our work with more than 70,000 security providers and government security forces since 2016 who have received training on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights we helped to develop and deliver.
Key examples of our disclosures and compliance with laws and regulations related to human rights include: • Our annual Slavery and Human Trafficking Statements for Esso UK Limited and related reporting affiliates in accordance with the U.K. Modern Slavery Act of 2015.
• Our annual Report on Fighting Against Forced Labour and Child Labour in Supply Chains for Imperial Oil Limited and its subsidiaries in accordance with the requirements of Canada’s Fighting Against Forced Labour and Child Labour in Supply Chains Act.
• The annual Australia Modern Slavery Statement of ExxonMobil Australia Pty Ltd, Mobil PNG Gas Holdings Pty Ltd, and related reporting entities, in accordance with the Australia Modern Slavery Act of 2018.
• The annual Norway Transparency Act Statement for Esso Norge AS, in accordance with the Norwegian Transparency Act.
• Our annual conflict minerals filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, providing disclosures regarding our supply chain for gold, tin, tungsten, and tantalum.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 56 This means maintaining high ethical standards; complying with applicable laws, rules, and regulations; and respecting local and national cultures.
And we are dedicated to running safe and environmentally responsible operations.
Our Environment Policy and Protect Tomorrow.
guiding principle are the cornerstones of our efforts.
The discipline and focus that drive our excellent reliability and safety performance drive our work to promote economic development and manage socioeconomic impacts everywhere we operate.
We base our actions on a scientific understanding of the environmental impacts of our operations.
We engage with communities, governments and others early in project planning and during operations to understand the social and economic needs of the communities where we operate.
Our goal is to contribute to the social and economic progress of these communities.
We believe respecting human rights, managing our impacts, and making valuable social investments are essential to our business success.
The key elements of our integrated approach include: • Identification and assessment of potential impacts and benefits • Human rights • Community engagement and grievance management • Community health, safety and security • Local economic development • Land use, resettlement, and livelihood restoration • Cultural heritage • Indigenous peoples Managing socioeconomic impacts Contributing to the well-being of communities United Nations Sustainable Development Goals related to this content.
We are committed to being a good corporate citizen in the places we operate worldwide.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 57 Environmental and Social Management Plan Upstream facilities, pipelines and infrastructure LNG plant and marine facilities Port Moresby office Community health, safety and security Stakeholder engagement Land access, resettlement and livelihood restoration Labor and working conditions Community development support Procurement and supplier Training and vocational education ESMP Social management plans Social themes National content themes Environmental management plans Environmental aspects by facility Impact identification and assessment Our projects and operations around the world provide socioeconomic benefits to the communities where we operate and beyond.
While there are inherent risks in any development or operation, we aim to avoid them, reduce them to acceptable levels, or remedy the impacts.
We use core processes and internal frameworks to manage our operations.
Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS), for example, and its integrated risk management system, helps us to identify, assess, manage, and monitor environmental and socioeconomic impacts, risks and opportunities throughout the life cycles of our assets.
We use our Environmental Aspects Guide to identify and assess significant environmental and socioeconomic aspects, in line with our Environment Policy.
Environmental aspects include activities, products, or services that can interact with the environment.
This also covers the “human environment,” which includes social and economic aspects beyond just climate and nature.
Our processes include: • Environmental Aspects Assessment.
• Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Health Impact Assessment.
• Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Health Management Plans.
We engage with local communities and stakeholders to understand the local socioeconomic setting, incorporate feedback, data, and other due diligence information into these processes.
We periodically update our assessments and plans to reflect changes in operational complexity or socioeconomic sensitivities.
When needed, we adjust our management plans accordingly.
For example, at the PNG LNG project in Papua New Guinea, operated by ExxonMobil PNG Limited, the Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) guides our work.
It helps us manage and reduce environmental, social, community health, safety, and security impacts.
The ESMP also ensures we meet Papua New Guinea’s legislative and regulatory requirements.
This involves complying with more than 1,300 regulatory obligations and more than 2,700 licenses, permits, certificates, and associated conditions.
The ESMP was developed after extensive consultation with stakeholders.
It includes environmental and social management and mitigation measures, monitoring requirements established by the PNG LNG Environmental Impact Statement, and lessons learned from the project’s construction phase.
It also incorporates OIMS, the International Finance Corporation Performance Standards, and other international standards such as the Equator Principles.
The ESMP consists of three environmental management and seven social management plans covering all PNG LNG facilities.
Requirements of the Production ESMP apply during normal operating conditions, as well as in reasonably foreseeable abnormal operating conditions or emergency situations.
More information can be found in the PNG LNG 2023 Annual Report.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 58 We believe in meaningful engagement with communities to build positive, long-term relationships.
We regularly consult with local groups and individuals to ensure their voices are heard and their concerns are addressed.
Our engagement process is designed to be locally and culturally appropriate.
We provide accessible and inclusive channels for exchanging information.
This includes activities like open houses, community gatherings, and individual meetings.
By integrating results of these discussions into our decisions, we aim to avoid or reduce potential impacts on communities.
This approach helps us enhance benefits, support effective investments, avoid delays, and resolve issues locally.
Grievance management Our grievance-management process offers various platforms for individuals and communities to raise concerns.
Depending on the location and nature of our activities, the process may include direct, in-person, and electronic engagement and the use of third-party proxies such as civil society organizations and nongovernmental associations.
We have dedicated personnel to map, track, analyze, respond to, and resolve community grievances promptly and in a way that supports confidentiality and non-retaliation.
Our grievance management approach involves five core steps: 1.
Publicize the process and support accessibility for stakeholders.
Receive, register, and acknowledge grievances, respecting confidentiality.
3. Review and investigate with the help of external input and qualified personnel.
Develop resolution options and respond to or close out grievances.
Monitor and evaluate outcomes.
Our practices are informed by the guidance of International Finance Corporation and Ipieca.
Individual processes may be complex or simple, driven by the characteristics of each location, type of activity, local sensitivities, potential impacts, and other factors.
Our key performance indicators reflect these attributes.
Managers across business lines steward programs in their areas.
They are supported by community relations and subject matter experts.
Management endorses and monitors these programs.
This includes regular reviews of stakeholder reports, grievance summaries, and project responses.
For more information on our stakeholder engagement and grievance-management processes, see the section on Human Rights.
In practice: Environmental justice in the U.S. We are part of the communities where our employees live and work, surrounded by their friends, families, and neighbors.
Their lived experiences reinforce our belief that every community has a unique culture and history that should be respected.
We believe everyone, regardless of race, color, national origin, or income, deserves to be treated fairly.
And we understand the importance of our activities to the communities where we operate and to their social and economic progress.
In places like Baytown, Beaumont, and Baton Rouge, communities have grown up around us for more than a century.
Our site in Baytown opened in 1919 – nearly 30 years before the city was incorporated.
Since that time, we have supported local infrastructure and housing, education, and community life.
2023 highlights include: • Supporting STEM education in the Goose Creek school district, including a $50,000 donation to their robotics division.
• Supporting higher education with a $100,000 donation to the Lee College Student Resource and Advocacy Center and equipment donations to the school’s Industrial Systems Technician Program.
• Working with local suppliers, including nearly $90 million spent with small businesses, $24.9 million with womenowned businesses, and $22.3 million with minority-owned businesses.1 In others, such as the Gulf Coast Growth Ventures (GCGV) joint-venture facility near Corpus Christi, Texas, we started operations more recently.
Projects like GCGV involve hundreds of outreach meetings with local organizations, chambers, government agencies, civic groups, and neighborhoods.
The GCGV Good Neighbor Program was initiated to address topics that local residents identified as most important, with four key components: Health & Safety, Education & Workforce, Environmental Stewardship, and Quality of Life.
2023 highlights include: • >$11.5 million spent locally, including minority- and women-owned businesses and small businesses; $5 million for a new community center in Gregory, Texas.
• 8 paid interns in the inaugural class of the Process Technology Internship Program with Del Mar College.
• >$100,000 in financial support to San Patricio County Workforce Development Consortium.
Community engagement and grievance management ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 59 Across our operations, we regularly consult with local groups and individuals so that diverse stakeholders are represented as we work alongside our communities, building on the best aspects of our operations, while mitigating any potential negative impacts.
As described in the Caring for land and biodiversity section of this report, the environmental and socioeconomic setting of our operations includes a wide range of interconnected aspects of nature, regulation, and socioeconomic sensitivities.
Our policies, practices, and expectations of employees support our efforts to: • Foster a culture of trust through inclusivity and transparency.
• Identify, mitigate, and respond effectively to the potential impacts of our operations.
• Make financial contributions and develop programs in communities to address needs or opportunities where we have some expertise or value to add.
• Work to ensure local communities directly and indirectly benefit from our presence.
As part of our engagement process, we identify and consult with potentially vulnerable and disadvantaged community members to understand barriers that may limit their participation.
We tailor our processes to be accessible, inclusive, and effective in exchanging information and identifying issues.
As with everything we do, our top priority is running safe facilities for our employees and nearby residents.
That’s what we’ve done for more than 140 years, and it’s what we will continue to do as we work to be an integral part of the communities in which we operate.
Community health, safety, and security We integrate community health, safety, and security aspects into our impact assessments as a key part of our socioeconomic management approach.
Our Community Health, Safety, and Security plans typically include: • Identified risks.
• Mitigation and management measures.
• Monitoring of outcomes.
Risks assessed may include: • Road traffic.
• Diseases spread by vectors such as mosquitoes, ticks, and fleas.
• Soil, water, and sanitation-related diseases.
• Cultural health practices.
We also look for opportunities to improve health, safety, and security in the communities where we operate.
Spotlight: Improving water quality in Indonesia Since 2008, the community-based water program launched by ExxonMobil Cepu Limited, in Indonesia has helped local residents access clean water during the dry season.
This program aims to reduce waterborne diseases and promote healthier living.
The community established a committee to manage the budget for constructing and monitoring water facilities and distributing water.
Multiple water towers have been built in the neighboring community.
These towers serve as the key source of potable water, distributed to households through an installed pipeline network.
Spotlight: Investing in health in Guyana Our investments in capacity in Guyana are supporting skill-based learning for students in the University of Guyana’s College of Medical Sciences.
Through the Higher Education Enhancement Project, dental chairs, state-of-the-art medical equipment, anatomy models, and other items are provided to the school to prepare healthcare professionals to work in the clinical environment.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 60 Local economic development We work closely with local communities to understand their unique needs.
Our goal is to contribute to long-term economic and social development.
Our approach integrates local content and community investment into every stage of our projects.
Local content We take a strategic, long-term approach to building human, social, and economic capacity.
This approach delivers tangible, lasting benefits for people, communities, and businesses in host countries.
We focus on: • Employing and training local personnel.
• Supporting local suppliers and contractors.
• Improving the livelihoods of community members.
We create a local content plan for each country or area.
These plans set objectives for long-term economic development, considering social and economic conditions, the nature of the project, and community needs.
Local supplier development and utilization We know the importance of building a strong, competitive supply chain in the countries where we operate.
Our approach includes buying goods and services from local suppliers and helping them grow their capabilities.
This helps to create a competitive local industrial base.
We collaborate with host governments, NGOs, and local communities to support local vendors.
To become a supplier for ExxonMobil, a local supplier must meet our safety, technical, environmental, and human rights expectations.
Our efforts support businesses owned by local individuals, women, and historically disadvantaged communities, helping them become more competitive and contributing to the long-term economic progress of the community.
Local hiring and development Hiring locally helps us meet our staffing needs and supports local economic development and education.
We aim to enhance the long-term capability of the local workforce through recruitment, training, and succession planning.
We hire local individuals and help them develop technical and leadership skills.
These skills benefit them throughout their careers with ExxonMobil or other future employers.
Our development program includes training in: • Relevant technical and vocational skills.
• Health and safety.
For more information, view our Investing in People report.
Spotlight: Economic development in Guyana ExxonMobil Guyana Limited takes a multi-tiered approach to local content and local economic development that includes workforce development, supplier development and strategic investments.
We focus on building workforce and supplier capabilities in conjunction with strategic investments in the local community.
Our strategy to develop a diverse and talented workforce has two components – the recruitment and development of Guyanese personnel who can play a role in our local operations, and the continued development of a global pool of talent capable of meeting our future business needs wherever we operate.
We apply proven training curriculums, industry best practices, and leading technology to support local workforce development.
ExxonMobil Guyana established the Centre for Local Business Development, which enables local firms to learn about opportunities in thwhich enables local firms to learn about opportunities in the oil and gas sector, strengthen their competitiveness, and prepare to supply their various services.
The Centre launched an entrepreneurship program called “Elevate All: The Manufacturing Edition,” to help local professionals to build out their business framework, map their growth paths and identify opportunities for business development.
Participants were offered mentorship and the opportunity to promote their products and services to banks and potential customers.
Additional information about our local content efforts in Guyana can be found at our Guyana Local Content website and in ExxonMobil Guyana’s annual report.
Investments in local communities Our investments support the economic development of local communities.
We engage with community members, host governments, and others to develop meaningful projects.
These projects aim to build and sustain economic growth while improving social conditions.
We consider each community’s development goals when deciding where, when, and how to invest.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 61 Spotlight: Papua New Guinea Wherever possible, our affiliate in Papua New Guinea aims to avoid resettlement from construction activities.
Where resettlement is unavoidable, the aim is to improve, or at least restore, the livelihoods and standards of living of displaced persons.
Preconstruction surveys help us assess potential project impacts and determine compensation for affected families.
In 2023, for example, three households were relocated from river crossings along the main pipeline route and received compensation.
They were assessed for livelihood restoration support, but it was found unnecessary.
A standard of living evaluation showed that two households improved their living conditions, while the third experienced a decline due to a clan dispute over compensation sharing, which is beyond the affiliate’s control.
For more information on our resettlement and livelihood restoration programs in Papua New Guinea, see the ExxonMobil PNG 2023 Environmental and Social Report.
Spotlight: Supporting women entrepreneurs With funding from the ExxonMobil Foundation, the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women (CBFW) trains women in Guyana and Nigeria to build successful businesses.
They work with a local partner to implement in-person and digital trainings to provide the knowledge and skills needed to start and grow their businesses.
The ExxonMobil Foundation has supported CBFW since 2015, and more than 50,000 women have been reached through their online and in-person programs.
We respect property rights in the countries and communities where we operate.
We aim to avoid involuntary resettlement and minimize voluntary resettlement through careful site selection.
When resettlement is unavoidable, our objective is to restore or improve the living standards and livelihoods of displaced people.
Site selection process We assess multiple potential locations for our operations based on availability, accessibility, safety, and environmental and social considerations.
Our screening process includes factors specific to each country, community, and area, such as: • Local demographics.
• Employment sources and levels.
• Regional conflicts or tensions.
• Religious and cultural sites.
Land use, resettlement, and livelihood restoration Land acquisition If land is necessary for a project, we follow host-country regulations and our internal standards.
For externally financed projects, we also adhere to lender requirements regarding land use, access, and resettlement.
Resettlement is considered “involuntary” when affected individuals or communities cannot refuse, such as in cases of eminent domain.
Projects requiring resettlement undergo heightened review by ExxonMobil senior management.
Resettlement and livelihood restoration When physical or economic displacement occurs, we implement fair and transparent resettlement and compensation plans.
These plans comply with regulatory requirements and recognized benchmarks like International Finance Corporation Performance Standard 5.
They are tailored to the specific geographies and cultures of each location, informed by engagement with affected landowners and supported by detailed surveys of housing, gardens, wildlife, sources of nature-based products, harvesting areas, and other assets.
We maintain transparency and offer a community grievance mechanism throughout the process.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 62 Imperial’s commitment to excellence in community engagement Indigenous peoples In locations inhabited or historically used by Indigenous peoples, we work closely with these communities to respect their cultures and customs.
We support employment initiatives and cultural heritage programs through local content development and strategic community investments.
Meaningful engagement We are committed to meaningful engagement and open consultation with Indigenous peoples.
We incorporate traditional knowledge and land use practices into our plans and promote community programs that respect traditions and cultures.
Meaningful engagement is a key aspect of Free, Prior, and Informed Consent, as recognized in the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.
No two communities are the same.
We start by establishing tailored engagement methods that align with local customs and preferences.
Communities decide how they want us to engage, whether with elected leaders, community elders, or other representatives.
They also choose the format – public forums, formal or informal meetings, and the frequency of these engagements.
Global frameworks Our interactions with Indigenous peoples are consistent with the following frameworks: • International Labour Organization Convention 169.
• United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.
• International Finance Corporation Performance Standards.
• World Bank Operational Policy on Indigenous Peoples.
Imperial’s commitment is reinforced by its indigenous relations strategy and supported by four key pillars: Consultation Workforce development Business development Community relations Our majority-owned affiliate in Canada, Imperial Oil Limited, has been a leader in Canada’s energy industry for over 140 years.
Imperial is crucial to our business in Canada, and it consistently demonstrates high standards, innovation, and leadership.
A key part of Imperial’s strategy to deliver value and collective success is advancing social innovation and engagement.
To do this, we meaningfully support and contribute to local and Indigenous communities.
Many of Imperial’s operations are near Indigenous communities or on traditional lands.
The company supports these communities where it explores, develops, and operates.
The goal is to build meaningful relationships based on mutual trust, respect, and shared prosperity.
Imperial continuously works to expand relations with the Indigenous communities throughout Canada.
This work is supported by its Indigenous relations and principles guidelines, which are built on four key pillars of engagement.
Imperial is a Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business procurement champion.
This places it among a select group of corporations committed to increasing supply chain opportunities for Indigenous Businesses.
Indigenous stakeholders have told Imperial that one of the most meaningful contributions it can make is to build strong partnerships with Indigenous businesses.
Imperial has worked to connect Indigenous and non-Indigenous suppliers and align its national supply chain needs with Indigenous partner capacity.
In 2021, Imperial reached a significant milestone, signing its largest-ever contracts with Indigenous-owned companies, Fort McKay Graham and Mikisew North American.
They were awarded five-year contracts for large-scale earthwork, land reclamation, and mining support services.
This led to record spending with Indigenous suppliers.
Imperial is now focused on expanding these efforts across the value chain, especially in downstream operations.
It continues to incorporate Indigenous input and traditional knowledge into its projects.
Imperial is also increasing Indigenous representation in its workforce and enhancing cultural education for its employees across Canada.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 63 In Banyu Urip in Indonesia, employees at our affiliate volunteer to work with cultural leaders and village residents to maintain and provide access to the sacred springs in the Sendang Kelor area, now known as “Sendang Lego.” Cultural Heritage Our respect for the cultural heritage and customs of local communities carries into our business practices.
We do this by managing the potential impacts of our operations and by making culturally appropriate community investments.
From project design to our ongoing operations, we look for ways to help preserve cultural heritage.
As we design our projects, we consider cultural and spiritual considerations, heritage sites, biodiversity conservation, traditional knowledge, and efficient use of resources.
We value and respect the diverse cultural histories of the areas where we operate.
To do this, we identify potential sites of cultural significance.
If the recovery or relocation of an artifact is appropriate, we develop tailored procedures in consultation with technical experts, local communities, and host country government officials.
We also deepen our knowledge with relevant research.
And we provide training to our construction and field contractor personnel.
This helps them identify different types of cultural heritage in the areas where we work.
Footnotes for Managing socioeconomic impacts 1 At all times decisions are made based on the best supplier for the need.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 64 Supplier stewardship We consider sustainability-related elements in our procurement processes.
For example, we seek opportunities to support responsible sourcing, including identification of potential human rights impacts within procurement category families.
Potential suppliers are reviewed on their operational, technical, and financial performance.
When considering a supplier, we also perform due diligence on compliance.
We use third-party sources to screen potential suppliers across compliance areas including sanctions, anti-corruption, and human trafficking.
In our bid process, we communicate our expectations that suppliers: • Comply with all applicable laws prohibiting the utilization of forced or compulsory labor.
• Provide its employees with working conditions, including payment of wages and benefits, that comply with all applicable laws.
• Ensure that its employees meet the legal employment age requirements in the country of employment.
Our standard terms and conditions used by our procurement team oblige suppliers to: • Comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those related to employment, safety, security, health, and the environment.
• Impose similar terms and conditions on their subcontractors.
• Permit audits and allow access to relevant sites, documents, and personnel.
• Report utilization of diverse and small businesses as appropriate.
Annually, we remind suppliers of our expectations in a yearend letter, available in dozens of languages and customized for specific regions.
This letter reinforces our expectations that suppliers conduct business in compliance with our Standards of Business Conduct and applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
It also provides contact information for any questions or concerns.
Our approach We work to promote inclusive sourcing open to all.
We are committed to respecting human rights and working to reduce impacts to the environment.
We seek to work with qualified suppliers that share our commitment.
Working with suppliers Contributing to the well-being of communities Our Supplier and Contractor Expectations call for the operations and business practices of our suppliers to be conducted in a manner consistent with the International Labour Organization 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (ILO Declaration) and the goals of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs).
They also communicate our expectation that our suppliers comply with all local laws and regulations.
To remain in good standing, our suppliers are expected to meet our stringent compliance, anti-corruption, conflict of interest, safety, and other guidelines.
Our core value of Care doesn’t stop at our door.
Our suppliers of goods and services all have a role to play in how we work to Protect Tomorrow.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 65 typically require suppliers and their subcontractors to allow us to access all offices and work sites and to interview personnel.
We select a percentage of suppliers annually for such audits, which include a compliance review on contract provisions.
When it comes to the issue of human trafficking, we proactively communicate our expectations to suppliers and manage risks through our Standards of Business Conduct, our Statement on Labor and the Workplace, and our due diligence processes.
We also work to reduce the conditions that can lead to human trafficking by promoting economic growth and personal prosperity.
Our due diligence process for identifying and assessing human rights risks focuses on the supplier, the commodity, and the location.
Additional due diligence is done for goods and services involving low-skilled labor in countries ranked below Tier 1 in the U.S. Department of State’s Trafficking in Persons (TIP) Report.
If higher risk is identified, potential suppliers complete a questionnaire to assess their policies and practices to address risks before we will continue with the contracting process.
Training on human rights risks in the supply chain is available to procurement professionals who conduct supply chain due diligence.
Human rights due diligence We are committed to respecting human rights and expect our suppliers to do the same.
Through our procurement processes and systems, we assess direct suppliers for potential human rights risks, with a focus on workers’ rights, including safe and healthy working conditions, as well as elimination of forced labor, child labor, and discrimination.
Our Statement on Labor and the Workplace articulates our support of the principles of the International Labour Organization (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles on Rights at Work.
This includes eliminating child labor, forced labor, and workplace discrimination, the recognition of the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining, and a safe and healthy workplace.
The standard terms and conditions used by our global procurement organization require adherence to all applicable laws and regulations.
Requests for quotes from our procurement staff typically include clauses regarding the prohibition of forced or compulsory labor and payment of wages and benefits in accordance with local laws.
Participants in bidding activities must comply with these requirements.
Audits further enhance transparency and compliance with our expectations in our supply chain.
Our standard contracts We audit a select number of suppliers each year for contract compliance on aspects including pricing, safety, drug and alcohol policy, invoicing, and travel expenses.
Contracts may be terminated if suppliers do not meet our expectations.
We define our suppliers according to the size and frequency of our purchases and review performance of our top-tier suppliers using criteria aligned with our 14 sustainability focus areas in an effort to identify risks and opportunities, and promote innovation.
Environmental performance We aim to work with innovative suppliers to reduce environmental impacts in our supply chain.
We also engage with suppliers to share our expectations.
Our cost models and sourcing strategies include environmental considerations like reducing energy use and incorporating recycled content into packaging materials.
Sustainability questions are part of our sourcing platform and are considered in evaluating bids and selecting suppliers.
Whether through collaboration with our transport and logistics suppliers or through our focus on efficiently running our warehouses, our approach continues to tackle everyday challenges in innovative and cost-effective ways.
Spotlight: Recognizing excellence in our suppliers Our Supplier Excellence program recognizes suppliers that demonstrate superior performance consistent with our expectations and values.
Local awards recognize suppliers working at a specific site, such as Brieser Construction, a woman-owned supplier near the Joliet refinery in Channahon, Illinois.
For more than 40 years, Brieser has been the site’s primary civil contractor.
In 2023, Brieser was recognized for reliably and consistently meeting their commitments on time – and, more importantly, safely.
In fact, Brieser had zero recordable safety incidents at the refinery in more than a decade.
Lexi Southall, President - Brieser Construction Josh Sanford, Engineering Manager - ExxonMobil ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 66 Supplier diversity We promote awareness of inclusive sourcing options with local, diverse, and small suppliers to increase competition and innovation while striving to make a positive impact on communities.
Where there is lack of such suppliers, we work to build capabilities with current and potential suppliers.
We aim to build mutually beneficial relationships that contribute to the growth of our diverse supplier base through outreach, business development, and training programs.
In 2023, we contributed to grants for education and growth of diverse owned businesses in the United States working with organizations such as the American Petroleum Institute, National Minority Supplier Development Council, and Women’s Business Enterprise National Council.
We buy goods and services from local suppliers and build their capabilities through local programs.
This helps build long-term local economic capacity, strengthens community relationships, and supports the objectives of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Inclusive sourcing open to all brings a competitive edge through new perspectives, ideas, and practices that help our businesses grow.
For example, when a radio system at one of our refineries was reaching its standard end of life, replacing it was an expensive proposition.
It was a registered diverse supplier that brought us an innovative and cost-effective solution to refurbish the radio batteries on a rolling basis.
As a result, we can safely and reliably use the system for years to come.
We encourage local, diverse, and small businesses to register in the supplier diversity database, SupplierOne, to gain visibility with procurement professionals.
We also work with organizations to help us identify and develop relationships with certified diverse suppliers globally.
Diverse databases may be considered in identifying potential suppliers, in addition to other options.
In 2024, we had more than $6.8 billion in annual spend with diverse suppliers in the United States.1 Our supplier diversity efforts also continue around the world, in accordance with applicable laws.
This includes spend with businesses owned by Indigenous Peoples in Canada and women in countries outside of the United States.
Footnotes for Working with suppliers 1 Includes direct ExxonMobil spending on Tier 1 suppliers and a select group of Tier 2 suppliers, which includes small business owned, veteran business owned, and other classifications informed by industry reporting guidance.
At all times decisions are made based on the best supplier for the need.
2024 data from Pioneer operations not available at time of publication.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 67 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE2 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Freshwater Freshwater withdrawn, millions of cubic meters 450 420 430 440 480 Freshwater consumption, millions of cubic meters 280 260 280 290 330 Freshwater intensity, metric tons of water consumed per metric tons of throughput or production Upstream 0.5 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.5 Downstream 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Chemical 1.7 1.5 1.9 2.2 2.5 Discharges to water Controlled hydrocarbon discharges to water, thousands of metric tons 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.5 1.1 Upstream 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.4 1.1 Downstream 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Spills to the environment Marine vessel (owned and long-term leased) hydrocarbon spills >1 barrel, number 0 0 0 0 0 Hydrocarbon spills (not from marine vessels) (oil spilled), number 181 158 170 159 441 Hydrocarbon spills (not from marine vessels) (oil spilled) volume, thousands of barrels 2.0 21.6 10.7 1.6 4.8 Other spills (not from marine vessels) (non-hydrocarbon), number 43 50 41 16 85 Other spills (not from marine vessels) (non-hydrocarbon) volume, thousands of barrels 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.5 2.0 Air emissions Sulfur oxides (SOx) emitted, millions of metric tons 0.07 0.08 0.08 0.06 0.05 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted, millions of metric tons3 0.12 0.12 0.13 0.12 0.11 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted, millions of metric tons 0.10 0.12 0.11 0.10 0.13 Material management Total hazardous waste generated from remediation, millions of metric tons 0.9 0.9 0.5 0.6 0.7 Total hazardous waste disposed from remediation, millions of metric tons 0.9 0.9 0.5 0.6 0.7 Total hazardous waste beneficial reuse from remediation, millions of metric tons <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 Total non-hazardous waste generated from remediation, millions of metric tons 0.4 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.2 Total non-hazardous waste disposed from remediation, millions of metric tons 0.4 0.7 0.5 0.7 0.2 Total non-hazardous waste beneficial reuse from remediation, millions of metric tons <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 0.1 Total hazardous waste generated from operations, millions of metric tons 0.3 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.4 Total hazardous waste disposed from operations, millions of metric tons 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.5 Total hazardous waste beneficial reuse from operations, millions of metric tons 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 Total non-hazardous waste generated from operations, millions of metric tons 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.6 1.5 Total non-hazardous waste disposed from operations, millions of metric tons 0.4 0.6 0.4 0.4 1.3 Total non-hazardous waste beneficial reuse from operations, millions of metric tons 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 Environmental expenditures Environmental expenditures, billions of dollars 4.5 4.6 5.7 7.1 9.0 Total dollars spent on environmental penalties, fines and settlements, billions of dollars <0.001 <0.001 0.002 <0.001 0.001 Sustainability performance data Performance data table1 Consistent with industry, we are reporting the data below over a 5-year period.
The reporting guidelines and indicators of Ipieca, the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) Sustainability Reporting Guidence for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020-Revised February 2023) informed the selection of the data included in this performance table.
For additional resources see the following: Sustainability, and the content index.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 68 SAFETY PERFORMANCE2 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Safety Fatalities - employees 1 0 0 1 0 Fatalities - contractors 0 1 3 1 1 Fatal accident rate - total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours)4 0.003 0.003 0.009 0.006 0.003 Fatal incident rate - total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours)4 0.003 0.003 0.009 0.006 0.003 Lost-time incident rate - employees (per 200,000 work hours)5 0.02 0.02 0.03 0.01 0.03 Lost-time incident rate - contractors (per 200,000 work hours)5 0.02 0.03 0.02 0.03 0.02 Lost-time incident rate - total workforce (per 200,000 work hours)5 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 Total recordable incident rate - employees (per 200,000 work hours)5 0.10 0.11 0.12 0.10 0.13 Total recordable incident rate - contractors (per 200,000 work hours)5 0.17 0.19 0.18 0.19 0.20 Total recordable incident rate - total workforce (per 200,000 work hours)5 0.14 0.16 0.16 0.15 0.17 Process Safety Tier 1 Events (API RP 754 guidance)6 63 44 55 55 61 INVESTING IN PEOPLE 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Workforce composition Global workforce7 Number of regular employees at year end, thousands 72 63 62 62 61 Percent international 60 64 64 64 63 Percent women 29 29 28 28 28 Percent professional women 34 34 34 34 34 Percent executive women 24 27 29 30 29 United States workforce8 Percent professional minorities 28 27 29 30 30 Percent executive minorities 20 22 23 23 23 Percent U.S. veterans 5 5 5 5 5 Professional hiring9 Global workforce7 Percent women 40 40 38 37 33 United States workforce8 Percent minorities 43 47 43 38 40 Percent Asian 16 20 17 13 15 Percent Black/African American 9 8 8 9 7 Percent Hispanic/Latino 14 14 14 14 15 Training Number of participants in corporate and technical training, thousands 78 73 69 66 67 Total corporate and technical training expenditures, millions of dollars 34 19 31 47 51 SOCIAL INVESTMENTS 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Community investments, millions of dollars2,10 Global 202.8 163.4 158.3 192.0 199.9 United States 91.6 60.0 62.5 78.3 85.8 Rest of World 111.2 103.4 95.8 113.7 114.1 ExxonMobil spending with United States diverse suppliers, millions of dollars11 2732 2366 4189 8139 6888 ExxonMobil spending with United States certified, tier 1, diverse suppliers, millions of dollars12 620 513 665 1752 1256 OTHER2 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Number of Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) participating countries13 20 16 16 15 17 Corporate political contributions — United States state campaigns and national 527s, millions of dollars 0.54 0.52 0.49 0.58 0.55 Percent of shares represented at Corporation’s Annual Meeting 82.2 72.0 80.4 83.1 83.8 ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 69 Footnotes for Sustainability performance data: 1 Performance data is based on a combination of measured and estimated data using reasonable efforts and collection methods.
Any calculations are based on industry standards and best practices, including guidance from the API and Ipieca as applicable.
There is uncertainty associated with the performance data due to variation in the processes and operations, the availability of sufficient data, quality of those data and methodology used for measurement and estimation.
Performance data may include rounding.
This table reflects Environmental Performance and Safety Performance data as of March 12, 2025.
Environmental Performance and Safety Performance data includes Denbury Inc. (“Denbury”) beginning on November 2, 2023 and Pioneer Natural Resources Company (“Pioneer”) beginning on May 3, 2024, where applicable and available.
Changes to the performance data may be reported as part of the company’s annual publications as new or updated data and/or methodologies become available as appropriate.
Environmental Performance and Safety Performance data is reported for ExxonMobil operated assets only.
“Other spills (not from marine vessels) (non-hydrocarbon)” include chemical and water-based drilling fluid spills.
2 Some historical performance data were updated to reflect the best available information at the time of this report.
3 Some historical performance data reflects a change in methodology for estimating NOx emissions from certain combustion equipment based on manufacturer performance data.
4 Total workforce includes employees and contractors.
Accidents or incidents include both injuries and illnesses.
From 2020 through 2024, all fatalities were injury-related.
5 Incidents include injuries and illnesses.
Total workforce includes employees and contractors.
6 Includes Denbury data beginning on April 1, 2024; Pioneer data expected to be available for 2025.
7 Global workforce is defined as all active, regular executive, management, professional, technical (EMPT), and wage employees, who work full-time or part-time for ExxonMobil, and are covered by ExxonMobil’s benefit plans and programs.
Pioneer employees only included in “Number of regular employees at year end, thousands”; not included in other statistics under “Global workforce” until completion of data integration.
8 United States workforce is defined as all active, regular EMPT, and wage employees on the United States payroll who work full-time or part-time for ExxonMobil, and are covered by ExxonMobil’s benefit plans and programs.
9 Professional employees and hires are defined as EMPT.
10 Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift and volunteer programs.
11 Includes direct ExxonMobil spending on Tier 1 suppliers and a select group of Tier 2 suppliers, which includes small business owned, veteran business owned, and other classifications informed by industry reporting guidance.
At all times decisions are made based on the best supplier for the need.
12 Certified tier 1 suppliers are defined as businesses that provide products or services to ExxonMobil, and that are verified by a third party to be at least 51% owned, controlled, and operated by a person(s) of a diverse category.
Our spending encompassed an expanded set of diverse classifications that includes: small business owned, veteran business owned, and other classifications informed by industry reporting guidance.
At all times decisions are made based on the best supplier for the need.
13 In countries where ExxonMobil has an upstream business presence.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 70 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT RELEVANT TO FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 AND OTHER IMPORTANT LEGAL DISCLAIMERS Images or statements of future ambitions, aims, aspirations, plans, goals, events, projects, projections, opportunities, expectations, performance, or conditions in the publications, including plans to reduce, abate, avoid or enable avoidance of emissions or reduce emissions intensity, sensitivity analyses, expectations, estimates, the development of future technologies, business plans, and sustainability efforts are dependent on future market factors, such as customer demand, continued technological progress, stable policy support and timely rule-making or continuation of government incentives and funding, and represent forward-looking statements.
Similarly, emission-reduction roadmaps to drive toward net zero and similar roadmaps for emerging technologies and markets, and water management roadmaps to reduce freshwater intake and/or manage disposal, are forward-looking statements.
These statements are not guarantees of future corporate, market or industry performance or outcomes for ExxonMobil or society and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control or are even unknown.
Actual future results, including the achievement of ambitions to reach Scope 1 and 2 net zero from operated assets by 2050, to reach Scope 1 and 2 net zero in heritage Permian Basin unconventional operated assets by 2030, and in Pioneer Permian assets by 2035, to eliminate routine flaring in-line with World Bank Zero Routine Flaring, to reach near zero methane emissions from operated assets and other methane initiatives to meet ExxonMobil’s greenhouse gas emission reduction plans and goals, divestment and start-up plans, and associated project plans as well as technology advances, including in the timing and outcome of projects to capture, transport and store CO2, produce hydrogen and ammonia, produce lower-emission fuels, produce ProxximaTM systems, produce carbon materials, produce lithium, and use plastic waste as feedstock for advanced recycling; future debt levels and credit ratings; business and project plans, timing, costs, capacities and profitability; resource recoveries and production rates; planned Denbury and Pioneer integrated benefits; obtain data on detection, measurement and quantification of emissions including reporting of that data or updates to previous estimates and progress in sustainability focus areas could vary depending on a number of factors, including global or regional changes in oil, gas, petrochemicals, or feedstock prices, differentials, seasonal fluctuations, or other market or economic conditions affecting the oil, gas, and petrochemical industries and the demand for our products; new market products and services; future cash flows; our ability to execute operational objectives on a timely and successful basis; the ability to realize efficiencies within and across our business lines; new or changing government policies for lower carbon and new market investment opportunities, or policies limiting the attractiveness of investments such as European taxes on energy and unequal support for different methods of carbon capture; developments or changes in local, national, or international treaties, laws, regulations, taxes, trade sanctions, trade tariffs, and incentives affecting our business, including those related to greenhouse gas emissions, plastics, carbon storage and carbon costs; timely granting of governmental permits and certifications; uncertain impacts of deregulation on the legal and regulatory environment; evolving reporting standards for these topics and evolving measurement standards for reported data; trade patterns and the development and enforcement of local, national and regional mandates; unforeseen technical or operational difficulties; the outcome of research efforts and future technology developments, including the ability to scale projects and technologies such as electrification of operations, advanced recycling, carbon capture and storage, hydrogen and ammonia production, ProxximaTM systems, carbon materials or direct lithium extraction on a commercially competitive basis; the development and competitiveness of alternative energy and emission reduction technologies; unforeseen technical or operating difficulties, including the need for unplanned maintenance; availability of feedstocks for lower-emission fuels, hydrogen, or advanced recycling; changes in the relative energy mix across activities and geographies; the actions of co-venturers competitors; changes in regional and global economic growth rates and consumer preferences including willingness and ability to pay for reduced emissions products; actions taken by governments and consumers resulting from a pandemic; changes in population growth, economic development or migration patterns; timely completion of construction projects; war, civil unrest, attacks against the Company or industry, and other political or security disturbances, including disruption of land or sea transportation routes; decoupling of economies, realignment of global trade and supply chain networks, and disruptions in military alliances; and other factors discussed here and in Item 1A.
Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K and under the heading “Factors affecting future results” available under the “Earnings” tab through the “Investors” page of our website at www.exxonmobil.com.
The Advancing Climate Solutions Report includes 2024 greenhouse gas emissions performance data as of March 1, 2025, and Scope 3 Category 11 estimates for full year 2024 as of February 19, 2025.
The greenhouse gas intensity and greenhouse gas emission estimates include Scope 2 market-based emissions.
The Sustainability Report, the Advancing Climate Solutions Report, and corresponding Executive Summaries were issued on April 30, 2025.
The content and data referenced in these publications focus primarily on our operations from Jan. 1, 2024 – Dec. 31, 2024, unless otherwise indicated.
Tables on our “Metrics and data” page were updated to reflect full year 2024 data.
Information regarding some known events or activities in 2025 and historical initiatives from prior years are also included.
No party should place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates of these publications.
All forward-looking statements are based on management’s Forward-Looking Statement Warning About our Advancing Climate Solutions and Sustainability Reports and Cautionary Statement The “Sustainability” section of our website contains two reports: • Our Advancing Climate Solutions Report describes what we are doing to tackle the challenge of meeting society’s need for energy while reducing greenhouse gas emissions and growing long-term value.
• And our Sustainability Report completes the picture as it describes our approach to managing our operations and our commitment to carry out our business activities the right way, for the long term.
The Sustainability Report, the Advancing Climate Solutions Report, and corresponding Executive Summaries were issued on April 30, 2025.
The content and data referenced in these publications focus primarily on our operations from Jan. 1, 2024 – Dec. 31, 2024, unless otherwise indicated.
Information regarding some known events or activities in 2025 and historical initiatives from prior years are also included.
Tables on our “Metrics and data” page were updated to reflect full year 2024 data.
The reporting guidelines and indicators in the Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020, revised February 2023) developed by Ipieca, the American Petroleum Institute, and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers informed our Sustainability Report and Advancing Climate Solutions Report.
These reports may also reference the GRI standards, the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, and/or other sources where appropriate.
The “Sustainability” section of our website uses qualitative descriptions and quantitative metrics to describe our policies, programs, practices and performance.
Many of metrics used in preparing the “Sustainability” section of our website are difficult to measure, methods for collecting data continue to evolve and may contain estimates or assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time of preparation.
The uncertainty associated with this data depends on variation in the processes and operations, the availability of sufficient data, the quality of those data and methodology used for measurement and estimation.
Changes to the data may be reported as updated data and/or methodologies become available.
Our topic selection process helped inform our sustainability reporting.
Visit our content index for a detailed mapping of the locations of information regarding topics included in the reports.
For purposes of the “Sustainability” section of our website, the selected topics do not correspond to the concept of materiality used in securities laws and disclosures required by U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules or any U.S. or foreign governing body.
2025 Advancing Climate Solutions Report and 2025 Sustainability Report published on April 30, 2025.
ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 71 knowledge and reasonable expectations at the time of publication.
ExxonMobil assumes no duty to update these statements or materials as of any future date, and neither future distribution of this material nor the continued availability of this material in archive form on our website should be deemed to constitute an update or re-affirmation of these figures or statements as of any future date.
Any future update will be provided only through a public disclosure indicating that fact.
See “ABOUT THE ADVANCING CLIMATE SOLUTIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORTS” at the end of this document for additional information on these reports and the use of nonGAAP and other financial measures.
ABOUT THE ADVANCING CLIMATE SOLUTIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORTS The Advancing Climate Solutions Report contains terms used by the TCFD, as well as information about how the disclosures in this report are consistent with the recommendations of the TCFD.
In doing so, ExxonMobil is not obligating itself to use any terms in the way defined by the TCFD or any other party, nor is it obligating itself to comply with any specific recommendation of the TCFD or to provide any specific disclosure.
For example, with respect to the term “material,” individual companies are best suited to determine what information is material, under the long-standing U.S. Supreme Court definition, and whether to include this information in U.S. Securities and Exchange Act filings.
In addition, the ISSB is evaluating standards that provide their interpretation of TCFD which may or may not be consistent with the current TCFD recommendations.
The Sustainability Report and Advancing Climate Solutions Report are each a voluntary disclosure and are not designed to fulfill any U.S., foreign, or third-party required reporting framework.
Forward-looking and other statements regarding environmental and other sustainability efforts and aspirations are not intended to communicate any material investment information under the laws of the United States or represent that these are required disclosures.
These publications are not intended to imply that ExxonMobil has access to any significant nonpublic insights on future events that the reader could not independently research.
In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking environmental and other sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future, including future laws and rulemaking.
Forward-looking and other statements regarding environmental and other sustainability efforts and aspirations are for informational purposes only and are not intended as an advertisement for ExxonMobil’s equity, debt, businesses, products, or services and the reader is specifically notified that any investor-requested disclosure or future required disclosure is not and should not be construed as an inducement for the reader to purchase any product or services.
The statements and analysis in these publications represent a good faith effort by the Company to address these investor requests despite significant unknown variables and, at times, inconsistent market data, government policy signals, and calculation, methodologies, or reporting standards.
Actions needed to advance ExxonMobil’s 2030 greenhouse gas emission-reductions plans are incorporated into its medium-term business plans, which are updated annually.
The reference case for planning beyond 2030 is based on the Company’s Global Outlook research and publication.
The Global Outlook is reflective of the existing global policy environment and an assumption of increasing policy stringency and technology improvement to 2050.
However, the Global Outlook does not attempt to project the degree of required future policy and technology advancement and deployment for the world, or ExxonMobil, to meet net zero by 2050.
As future policies and technology advancements emerge, they will be incorporated into the GIobal Outlook, and the Company’s business plans will be updated as appropriate.
References to projects or opportunities may not reflect investment decisions made by the corporation or its affiliates.
Individual projects or opportunities may advance based on a number of factors, including availability of stable and supportive policy, permitting, technological advancement for cost-effective abatement, insights from the Company planning process, and alignment with our partners and other stakeholders.
Capital investment guidance in lower-emission and other new investments is based on our corporate plan; however, actual investment levels will be subject to the availability of the opportunity set, stable public policy support, other factors, and focused on returns.
Energy demand modeling aims to replicate system dynamics of the global energy system, requiring simplifications.
The reference to any scenario or any pathway for an energy transition, including any potential net-zero scenario, does not imply ExxonMobil views any particular scenario as likely to occur.
In addition, energy demand scenarios require assumptions on a variety of parameters.
As such, the outcome of any given scenario using an energy demand model comes with a high degree of uncertainty.
For example, the IEA describes its NZE scenario as extremely challenging, requiring unprecedented innovation, unprecedented international cooperation, and sustained support and participation from consumers, with steeper reductions required each year since the scenario’s initial release.
Third-party scenarios discussed in these reports reflect the modeling assumptions and outputs of their respective authors, not ExxonMobil, and their use or inclusion herein is not an endorsement by ExxonMobil of their underlying assumptions, likelihood, or probability.
Investment decisions are made on the basis of ExxonMobil’s separate planning process but may be secondarily tested for robustness or resiliency against different assumptions, including against various scenarios.
These reports contain information from third parties.
ExxonMobil makes no representation or warranty as to the third-party information.
Where necessary, ExxonMobil received permission to cite third-party sources, but the information and data remain under the control and direction of the third parties.
ExxonMobil has also provided links in this report to third-party websites for ease of reference.
ExxonMobil’s use of the third-party content is not an endorsement or adoption of such information.
ExxonMobil reported emissions, including reductions and avoidance performance data, are based on a combination of measured and estimated data.
We assess our performance to support continuous improvement throughout the organization using our Environmental Performance Indicator (EPI) manual.
The reporting guidelines and indicators in the Ipieca, the American Petroleum Institute (API), the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020, revised February 2023) and key chapters of the GHG Protocol inform the EPI and the selection of the data reported.
Emissions reported are estimates only, and performance data depends on variations in processes and operations, the availability of sufficient data, the quality of those data and methodology used for measurement and estimation.
Emissions data is subject to change as methods, data quality, and technology improvements occur, and changes to performance data may be updated.
Emissions, reductions, abatements and enabled avoidance estimates for non-ExxonMobil operated facilities are included in the equity data and similarly may be updated as changes in the performance data are reported.
ExxonMobil’s plans to reduce emissions are good-faith efforts based on current relevant data and methodology, which could be changed or refined.
ExxonMobil works to continuously improve its approach to estimate, detect, measure, and address emissions.
ExxonMobil actively engages with industry, including API and Ipieca, to improve emission factors and methodologies, including measurements and estimates.
Any reference to ExxonMobil’s support of, work with, or collaboration with a third-party organization within these publications do not constitute or imply an endorsement by ExxonMobil of any or all of the positions or activities of such organization.
ExxonMobil participates, along with other companies, institutes, universities and other organizations, in various initiatives, campaigns, projects, groups, trade organizations, and other collaborations among industry and through organizations like the United Nations that express various ambitions, aspirations and goals related to climate change, emissions, sustainability, and the energy transition.
ExxonMobil’s participation or membership in such collaborations is not a promise or guarantee that ExxonMobil’s individual ambitions, future performance or policies will align with the collective ambitions of the organizations or the individual ambitions of other participants, all of which are subject to a variety of uncertainties and other factors, many of which may be beyond ExxonMobil’s control, including government regulation, availability and cost-effectiveness of technologies, and market forces and other risks and uncertainties.
Such third parties’ statements of collaborative or individual ambitions and goals frequently diverge from ExxonMobil’s own ambitions, plans, goals, and commitments.
ExxonMobil will continue to make independent decisions regarding the operation of its business, including its climate-related and sustainability-related ambitions, plans, goals, commitments, and investments.
ExxonMobil’s future ambitions, goals and commitments reflect ExxonMobil’s current plans, and ExxonMobil may unilaterally change them for various reasons, including adoption of new reporting standards or practices, market conditions; changes in its portfolio; and financial, operational, regulatory, reputational, legal and other factors.
References to “resources,” “resource base,” “recoverable resources” and similar terms refer to the total remaining estimated quantities of oil and natural gas that are expected to be ultimately recoverable.
The resource base includes quantities of oil and natural gas classified as proved reserves, as well as quantities that are not yet classified as proved reserves, but that are expected to be ultimately recoverable.
The term “resource base” is not intended to correspond to SEC definitions such as “probable” or “possible” reserves.
For additional information, see the “Frequently Used Terms” on the Investors page of the Company’s website at www.exxonmobil.com under the header “Modeling Toolkit.” References to “oil” and “gas” include crude, natural gas liquids, bitumen, synthetic oil, and natural gas.
The term “project” as used in these publications can refer to a variety of different activities and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government payment transparency reports.
Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, many with names that include ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, Esso, and XTO.
For convenience and simplicity, those terms and terms such as “Corporation,” “company,” “our,” “we,” and “its” are sometimes used as abbreviated references to one or more specific affiliates or affiliate groups.
Abbreviated references describing global or regional operational organizations, and global or regional business lines are also sometimes used for convenience and simplicity.
Nothing contained herein is intended to override the corporate separateness of affiliated companies.
Exxon Mobil Corporation’s goals do not guarantee any action or future performance by its affiliates or Exxon Mobil Corporation’s responsibility for those affiliates’ actions and future performance, each affiliate of which manages its own affairs.
For convenience and simplicity, words like venture, joint venture, partnership, co-venturer and partner are used to indicate business relationships involving common activities and interests, and those words may not indicate precise legal relationships.
These publications cover Exxon Mobil Corporation’s owned and operated businesses and do not address the performance or operations of our suppliers, contractors or partners unless otherwise noted.
In the case of certain joint ventures for which ExxonMobil is the operator, we often exercise influence but not control.
Thus, the governance, processes, management and strategy of these joint ventures may differ from those in these reports.
At the time of publication, ExxonMobil has completed the acquisitions of Denbury Inc. and Pioneer Natural Resources Company.
These reports and the data therein do not speak of these companies’ pre-acquisition governance, risk management, strategy approaches, or emissions or sustainability performance unless specifically referenced.
These reports or any material therein are not to be used or reproduced without the permission of Exxon Mobil Corporation.
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION FOR NON-GAAP AND OTHER MEASURES The Positioned for Growth in a Lower-Emission Future section of the Advancing Climate Solutions Report mentions modeled operating cash flow in comparing different businesses over time in a future scenario.
Historic operating cash flow is defined as net income, plus depreciation, depletion and amortization for consolidated and equity companies, plus noncash adjustments related to asset retirement obligations plus proceeds from asset sales.
The Company’s long-term portfolio modeling estimates operating cash flow as revenue or margins less cash expenses, taxes and abandonment expenditures plus proceeds from asset sales before portfolio capital expenditures.
The Company believes this measure can be helpful in assessing the resiliency of the business to generate cash from different potential future markets.
The performance data presented in the Advancing Climate Solutions Report and Sustainability Report, including on emissions, is not financial data and is not GAAP data.
